4th CIIE to stimulate economic recovery of developing countries
Editor's note: Liu Chunsheng is an associate professor at the Beijing-based Central University of Finance and Economics. The article reflects the author's opinion, and not necessarily the views of CGTN.

Held as scheduled for four consecutive years, the China International Import Expo (CIIE) has become a window for observing the trend of China's opening up. It fully embodies China's consistent attitude of supporting the multilateral trading system and globalization, and vividly sends a positive signal to oppose protectionism and to maintain an open world economy.

With the coronavirus continuing to spread, the world economic recovery has a bumpy road ahead.

Restrictive measures and border closures triggered by the COVID-19 pandemic have had a catastrophic impact on global trade. In particular, many developing countries are facing more severe challenges than the developed due to their fragile economic structure, deep dependence on the export of primary products, and lack of resilience and vitality for economic recovery.

In this context, the ongoing 4th CIIE not only demonstrates China's determination to continue to open its market to the rest of the world, but also shows China's goodwill gesture to share its achievements and provide equal opportunities for exhibitors from other developing countries to compete on the same stage with those from the developed world. Starting from the first CIIE, China has held a number of special supply-demand matchmaking fairs and provided two free standard booths for exhibitors from the least developed countries

As many developing economies lie at the middle and low end of the global value chain and have limited access to major global markets, they have urgent needs to expand new markets and find new economic drivers especially during the current de-globalization and trade-protectionism trends.

The CIIE provides these countries with tangible export markets and employment opportunities, stimulates their integration into the process of economic globalization, and enhances the spillover effect of international trade.

China has the world's largest consumer market, including a middle-income group exceeding 400 million, and the consumption upgrading is accelerating. The CIIE serves as a mutually beneficial platform and helps business people from many developing countries to find opportunities in China.