A bite of the 4th China International Import Expo
CIIE mascot Jinbao. /CFP CIIE mascot Jinbao. /CFP

The food and agricultural products exhibition area of the China International Import Expo (CIIE) has always been the most popular, and even enjoys the nickname of "A Bite of CIIE." The area covers six categories: dairy products; vegetables, fruits and agricultural products; beverage and alcohol; meat, aquatic products and frozen food; snacks, sweets and condiments; and comprehensive food. It has attracted more than 1,000 enterprises, including nearly 30 of the world's top 500 enterprises. The world's four major grain merchants, top two spirits and wine groups, and six of the world's top eight dairy enterprises are participating in the exhibition. Many products will make their world debut on the CIIE stage. The exhibition area will also present the world's most cutting-edge food production technology and the latest and most distinctive exhibits.

CGTN CGTN

Fonterra Group, the vice-chairman unit of the Dairy Professional Committee of the CIIE Exhibitors Union, will conduct the Asian debut of its New Zealand grass-fed fresh milk. According to the company, the milk comes from New Zealand grass-fed cows and uses a 72-degree Celsius pasteurization process to retain a variety of active nutrients, such as immunoglobulin. It is also equipped with a special light-shielding bottle to prevent the milk from contacting light, which can lead to decomposition, thereby ensuring a fresh taste. Companies are now focusing on adapting to China's consumption environment and diversified market needs.

Chocolate brand Anthon Berg collaborated with Chinese liquor companies Yanghe and Fenjiu to launch Chinese liquor chocolate. Chocolate brand Anthon Berg collaborated with Chinese liquor companies Yanghe and Fenjiu to launch Chinese liquor chocolate.

Craft beer brand Mild Beer has debuted a new line of beverages under the name "Game of Thrones," with a limited edition brew called "Winter is Coming," in the hopes that the event at this year's CIIE will entice a new generation of consumers. Chocolate brand Anthon Berg collaborated with Chinese liquor companies Yanghe and Fenjiu to launch Chinese liquor chocolate. This product combines the long history and culture of China's high-end liquor with the unique manufacturing process of Western chocolate, and will be introduced to the Chinese market through the CIIE platform.

Imported fruit is being inspected before entering the expo. /CFP Imported fruit is being inspected before entering the expo. /CFP