A boycott of Beijing Olympics breaches human rights
Editor's note: CGTN's First Voice provides instant commentary on breaking stories. The daily column clarifies emerging issues and better defines the news agenda, offering a Chinese perspective on the latest global events.

As athletes gear up for the Beijing 2022 Olympic Winter Games, so-called human rights activists are beating the drum to boycott the event, urging the International Olympic Committee (IOC) to postpone or relocate the Games.

The anti-China pioneers are seizing every single chance to discredit China. This time, they have turned to the Olympic Games, packaging a Western political campaign against the communist country into human rights concerns. Straining every nerve to politicize the sports event, these human rights activists are blatantly breaching human rights themselves.

The practice of sports is a human right. "Beijing will do an excellent job, 100 days can't wait" is how Kate Caithness, president of the World Curling Federation, reacted at the start of the 100-day countdown to the Games, as reported by Xinhua.

Her remarks epitomize the anticipation of athletes and sports officials in the majority of countries. "It is thrilling to know the next Games [in Beijing] are right around the corner," Yang Yang, a two-time gold medalist in short track speed skating, told the IOC.

For many athletes, the Olympic Games are about their dreams to make their presence felt on the Olympic stage for which they have trained for years, hoping to sing their national anthems under their countries' flags. A boycott on the 2022 event is thus against the will of the athletes, meaning their hard work would not be compensated, and they would not even have a chance to compete, let alone win a medal.

Washington's boycott of the 1980 Moscow Olympics still resonates among American athletes. As a response to the Soviet Union's move into Afghanistan, then U.S. president Jimmy Carter urged a boycott on the event in Moscow. As a result, "The 1980 U.S. Olympic team is a team in name only. They never actually competed, their dreams sacrificed to geopolitical affairs that remain controversial four decades later," The Washington Post reported.

For hundreds of athletes, their Olympic dreams were dashed and careers were effectively ended ¨C thanks to Washington's politics-oriented move.

Now, the U.S.-led Western bloc is thinking of repeating history. And ironically, they are doing so out of "human rights" concerns ¨C at the cost of the players' right to practice sports.