America's dysfunctional mental healthcare system
Artist Jorge Rodriguez-Gerada unveiled a first-of-its kind original piece of art called The Hug, at Lincoln Center in New York City before World Mental Health Day, October 7, 2021. /Getty Artist Jorge Rodriguez-Gerada unveiled a first-of-its kind original piece of art called The Hug, at Lincoln Center in New York City before World Mental Health Day, October 7, 2021. /Getty

Editor's note: Haider Rifaat is a features writer for OK! Pakistan, the international edition of OK! Magazine. He is also a writer for Arabian Moda and Flanelle magazine and serves as the creator and host of "Conversations with Haider Rifaat" on YouTube. Rifaat is currently pursuing a master's degree in communication from the University of Hawaii at Manoa. The article reflects the author's opinions, and not necessarily the views of CGTN. Mental health crisis has long been a part of the United States history. The only difference is that of the issue's growing intensity with COVID-19. Numerous socioeconomic challenges put forth by the pandemic have exacerbated mental illness in the country with average Americans experiencing increasing anxiety and depression.

The State of Mental Health in America revealed that in 2019, 19.86 percent of U.S. adults experienced mental illness - which equates to roughly 50 million Americans, 4.58 percent of adults reported high levels of suicidal ideation - an increase of 664,000 from last year's data. More than 2.5 million youngsters struggle with severe depression, while over half of U.S. adults (at least 27 million) with mental illness fail to receive proper treatment. These statistics provide insight into America's dysfunctional mental healthcare sector long before the pandemic emerged. A 2018 America's Mental Health study found that in addition to the U.S.' lacking sufficient mental health services, inadequate access remained a fundamental problem. Anthony Hassan, President and CEO of Cohen Veterans Network said in a statement, "If we want to save lives, save families and save futures, we must reimagine our behavioral health system and take concrete steps to improving consumers' ability to find the care they need, when they need it, and on their terms." Since the onset of the pandemic, substance abuse rose to the occasion, and an increasing number of young adults and children winded up in hospitals, expecting mental health treatments. Even demand for mental healthcare providers increased significantly during the pandemic. With staffing shortage, inequitable access to mental health facilities and socioeconomic divides in the country, mental illness will soon blow out of proportion if the United States government pays no heed to the issue. It is deeply troubling to realize that despite the U.S. investing more than $225 billion towards mental illness each year, mental healthcare is unaffordable and disproportionately distributed. This grim reality gives insight into how privileged, richer families are able to receive mental healthcare treatments while lower-middle income families are brushed on the side.

Senate Majority Leader Charles Schumer addressed mental health problems during a presser while holding an illustration of brain with words describing mental health problems, New York City, April 11, 2021. /Getty Senate Majority Leader Charles Schumer addressed mental health problems during a presser while holding an illustration of brain with words describing mental health problems, New York City, April 11, 2021. /Getty