America's ongoing debt trap
Credit cards and U.S. dollar notes. /Getty Credit cards and U.S. dollar notes. /Getty

Editor's note: James Rae is a professor at California State University Sacramento. He was also a Fulbright Scholar at Beijing Foreign Studies University from 2017 to 2018. The article reflects the author's opinions and not necessarily the views of CGTN. The United States is the world's largest debtor nation, with an accumulated federal debt now topping $28 trillion. While the debt to GDP ratio has been growing once again, and is near a peak, it may be sustainable for now, but growing questions about its future impact are looming.

The ability of the U.S. to maintain its dominant position in global affairs, in both the security and economic realm, depend heavily on the health and management of its domestic affairs. The long-term future competitiveness of the American economy is hard to predict, but runaway debts do not bode well regardless. This issue gins more clarity by the immediacy of America's debt ceiling limit legislation. In 2011, the two major American political parties faced off over the regular extension of the debt ceiling and caused insecurity in financial markets when the small risk of default appeared as a possible reality, as Standard and Poor's ultimately downgraded American sovereign debt. A decade later, we may be headed for a similar reckoning. An agreement reached between both parties to suspend the debt ceiling for two years allowed relatively smooth sailing for the crisis spending agreed upon by both parties during both the Donald Trump and Joe Biden administrations. However, that agreement is due to expire July 31. No deal is prepared in this immediate period, though the U.S. government is estimated to have the budgetary ability to persist in its functions until October or November. Therein is the background, which will then be played out like almost all political issues, in a divisive Congress keen to seek partisan advantage regarding any national debate. Senate Minority Leader, Republican Mitch McConnell pledges not to vote for raising the debt limit and hopes to force the Democratic rivals to raise the limit unilaterally using the procedure known as reconciliation where legislation can be adopted by 50 percent plus one rather than the filibuster-proof majority of 60. This would seek to make Democrats "own" the enlarged debt and pressure their caucus on the looming trillion-dollar spending bills.

A clock of U.S. debt. /Screenshot via usdebtclock.org A clock of U.S. debt. /Screenshot via usdebtclock.org