American bill threatens to exacerbate Ethiopia's crisis
Editor's note: Andrew Korybko is a Moscow-based American political analyst. The article reflects the author's views and not necessarily those of CGTN.

Ethiopia is in the midst of its worst crisis in decades after the terrorist-designated Tigray People's Liberation Front (TPLF), which used to be the most influential faction of the former ruling party prior to falling out with Prime Minister Abiy Ahmed, threatened to take over the capital of Africa's second most populous country. The war started a year ago after the TPLF killed members of the Ethiopian National Defense Force (ENDF) in a series of surprise attacks in the northern Tigray Region.

It continues to this day despite the ENDF withdrawing from the region over the summer as part of its unilateral ceasefire aimed at relieving the local population's humanitarian challenges. Instead of peacefully reciprocating, the TPLF immediately invaded the neighboring Afar and Amhara regions. Its open calls for regime change contradict its previous claims that it was fighting a "defensive war" aimed solely at breaking the federal government's alleged blockade against their region.

The U.S. is threatening to exacerbate this crisis through its newly introduced "Ethiopia Peace and Democracy Promotion Act of 2021 (EPDPA)." This bipartisan legislation makes America an indirect party to the ongoing hostilities and lends credence to popular claims in the country that Ethiopia's former ally is at the very least biased in support of the TPLF. It comes shortly after the U.S. announced that it'll revoke Ethiopia's free access to the American market due to its alleged human rights abuses.

The EPDPA contains a number of disturbing provisions. One part mandates support for "civil society," which in the context of the country's current crisis could be interpreted as intent to foment Color Revolution unrest, especially when remembering the U.S. history in doing so in other countries. Another aims to "support all-inclusive national dialogue," which is a euphemism for pressuring the authorities to rescind the TPLF's terrorist designation and subsequently treat it as a political equal.

The U.S.'s planned meddling is made even more explicit through the EPDPA's threats to sanction anyone who it accuses of "undermining efforts with respect to a peaceful negotiated settlement to end hostilities in northern Ethiopia," which could be exploited to essentially encompass the entire government. It also makes similar threats against anyone who sells arms to the country, which could lead to secondary sanctions against Russia and Ethiopia's other arms partners.