Anti-Asian hate speech surged online amid pandemic, report shows
Online hate speech against Asians increased 2,770% between 2019 and 2020. /People's Vision/CFP Online hate speech against Asians increased 2,770% between 2019 and 2020. /People's Vision/CFP

Anti-Asian hate has become "significantly more common and widespread" since the COVID-19 outbreak, according to a new report, which shows online hate speech against Asians increasing a staggering 2,770 percent in the first year of the pandemic. The shocking figure was reported in a social media data study of more than 263 million conversations that aims to understand how online discrimination in the UK and U.S. evolved between 2019 and 2021. "Online hate speech has reached an all-time high and, to some communities, is at an unbearable extreme," said Liam Hackett, CEO of Ditch the Label, the youth charity that commissioned the study. "This report shines a vital and sobering light on the very real and devastating experiences of millions worldwide," he added. READ MORE: Current education path 'unsustainable' Diversifying Germany's forests Poland urged to help migrants at Belarus border

Between 2019 and mid-2021, there was on average a new post including race or ethnicity-based hate speech every 1.7 seconds, according to the data, with a 28 percent increase in ethnicity-related and racist hate speech in the two countries. It added that violent threats on the internet increased by a worrying 22 percent. The data, compiled in collaboration with intelligence analysts Brandwatch, showed a dramatic but general uptick in transphobic, homophobic and gender-based online hate speech since the start of the pandemic. But perhaps the most alarming figures relate to the sudden and rapid increase in anti-Asian hate speech with the onset of the virus. The report says there have been 5.5 million examples of, or discussions about, online hate speech against Asian communities since 2019. The worst of the online abuse peaked alongside the announcement of the pandemic in March 2020, accompanied by the emergence of references to the "China virus" or "kung flu." The report referenced this, saying: "These terms have been used millions of times since then, including by leaders and authority figures who help legitimize the use of some of those terms."

Former U.S. President Donald Trump regularly referred to COVID-19 as the 'China virus.' /People's Vision/CFP Former U.S. President Donald Trump regularly referred to COVID-19 as the 'China virus.' /People's Vision/CFP