Astros beat Braves in Game 5, taking World Series back to Houston
Martin Maldonado of the Houston Astros hits an RBI single in the seventh inning in Game 5 of the World Series against the Atlanta Braves at Truist Park in Atlanta, Georgia, U.S., October 31, 2021. /CFP Martin Maldonado of the Houston Astros hits an RBI single in the seventh inning in Game 5 of the World Series against the Atlanta Braves at Truist Park in Atlanta, Georgia, U.S., October 31, 2021. /CFP

The Houston Astros defeated the Atlanta Braves 9-5 in Game 5 of the World Series at Truist Park on Saturday, staying alive in the series and taking it back to Minute Maid Park for at least one more contest. Trailing 3-1 leading into the game, the Astros stood on the edge of the cliff. "We didn't want to end here with the celebration here," said the team's manager Dusty Baker. But things grew dire early for Houston as Adam Duvall hit that grand slam in the first inning to open up a 4-0 lead for the Braves. It was only the third first-inning grand slam in World Series history. Framber Valdez, who started on the mound for the Astros in Sunday's game, did not even complete three innings.

Adam Duvall of the Atlanta Braves hits a grand slam in the first inning in Game 5 of the World Series against the Houston Astros at Truist Park, October 31, 2021. /CFP Adam Duvall of the Atlanta Braves hits a grand slam in the first inning in Game 5 of the World Series against the Houston Astros at Truist Park, October 31, 2021. /CFP

"I always say, if it's going to happen, let it happen early," said Baker. "You don't want it to happen in the middle of the game or toward the end of the game. The guys came through. That's what counts." Fortunately for the Astros, their bats came alive in the second inning. First, Alex Bregman brought home Yuli Gurriel and put Kyle Tucker in scoring position with an RBI double. Then Martin Maldonado helped Tucker score another run with a sacrifice fly, making it 4-2. "I think that was the key of us winning the game right there, bouncing back right away. Those two runs, Bregman getting the huge double. Getting the confidence all the way up," said Carlos Correa of the Astros. The Astros continued their aggressive hitting in the third inning as Correa hit an RBI double to score Jose Altuve. Then Gurriel grounded out to the shortstop to score Michael Brantley, tying the score 4-4.

Carlos Correa (#1) of the Houston Astros runs to first in the eighth inning in Game 5 of the World Series against the Atlanta Braves at Truist Park, October 31, 2021. /CFP Carlos Correa (#1) of the Houston Astros runs to first in the eighth inning in Game 5 of the World Series against the Atlanta Braves at Truist Park, October 31, 2021. /CFP

Though Freddie Freeman put the Braves ahead with a solo homer in the bottom of the third, it would be the last run the team scored in Game 5 and not enough to stop the Astros. When Maldonado entered the batter's box, the bases were fully loaded with two strikeouts. Maldonado showed bunt on the 3-1 pitch from A.J. Minter, but pulled back after seeing the pitch was too far inside, leading to the fourth ball and allowing the tying run to score for Houston. "Whatever way you bring a run, especially in the (playoffs), is huge," said Maldonado. "You get good at-bats, whatever the situation dictates. You try to work through it."

Marwin Gonzalez (#9) of the Houston Astros hits a two-RBI single in the fifth inning in Game 5 of the World Series against the Atlanta Braves at Truist Park, October 31, 2021. /CFP Marwin Gonzalez (#9) of the Houston Astros hits a two-RBI single in the fifth inning in Game 5 of the World Series against the Atlanta Braves at Truist Park, October 31, 2021. /CFP