At COP26, fix the West's climate change bluster
Editor's note: Hannan Hussain is a foreign affairs commentator and author. He is a Fulbright recipient at the University of Maryland, the U.S., and a former assistant researcher at Islamabad Policy Research Institute. The article reflects the author's opinions and not necessarily the views of CGTN.

October 31 is set to mark the formal commencement of COP26 in Glasgow, the United Nations' high-stakes climate change conference is aimed at credibly dialing down the risks of unprecedented climatic pressures.

"Despite these alarm bells ringing at fever pitch, we see new evidence today ... that governments' actions so far simply do not add up to what is so desperately needed. We are still on track for a global temperature rise of 2.7 degrees Celsius; a far cry from the 1.5 degree Celsius target to which the world agreed under the Paris Agreement", warned UN Secretary-General Ant¨®nio Guterres this week.

Secretary Guterres has a point and this year's summit is particularly relevant for two main reasons. First, the gathering may offer an immediate pulse of how far developed countries are truly willing to go in "walking the talk" vis-a-vis sizable climate resilience targets, especially given their fixation with dictating terms to climate-stressed economies as emission giants circumvent accountability.

More pivotal, the summit will test the West's appetite to recognize progressive climate interventions advanced by select rising powers. Expect either a well-consolidated front on climate action or a statement of intent from the West on why ideological anxieties should once again matter. A planet in pain leaves a shell of an audience for the latter.

Consider how nearly half of the globe's historic greenhouse gas emissions (GHG) stand attributed to a cluster of developed economies. That includes several Western powers that have sought to prioritize border militarization budgets over average annual climate financing, virtually contradicting the spirit of COP26's finance mobilization objective: to ensure at least $100 billion in climate finance per year on the back of developed countries coming through on talk.

Canada, the United States and Australia (all recognized as wealthy emitters) must also rethink the nature of incentives suited to COP26 this year. I pin this statement on the fact that some of these very industrial states have been pressuring developing countries to perform for the developed world's own gross negligence on emissions output.