Austria's lockdown for unvaccinated doesn't violate civil liberties
Police officers monitor compliance with the lockdown in Innsbruck's old town during the first day of a nationwide lockdown for people not yet vaccinated against the novel coronavirus in Innsbruck, Austria, November 15, 2021. /Getty

Police officers monitor compliance with the lockdown in Innsbruck's old town during the first day of a nationwide lockdown for people not yet vaccinated against the novel coronavirus in Innsbruck, Austria, November 15, 2021. /Getty

Editor's note: Bradley Blankenship is a Prague-based American journalist, political analyst and freelance reporter. The article reflects the author's opinions and not necessarily the views of CGTN.

Austria took perhaps the most dramatic COVID-19-related action by implementing a nationwide lockdown for all unvaccinated people on Monday, certainly the toughest of such measures in Europe. All people aged 12 or older who haven't been vaccinated or have recently recovered from a COVID-19 infection are now barred from leaving their homes except for basic activities.

The lockdown will be imposed until November 24, with police getting the green light from officials to step up their presence and issue fines of up to 1,450 euros ($1,660) for violations.

This approach to addressing vaccine refusers was taken because Austria, like many other countries in Europe, is experiencing a huge surge in cases as the winter months loom. Still, critics, both domestic and foreign, are calling foul on the Austrian government for violating civil liberties.

However, this criticism is plain nonsense. Austria's tough stance on vaccination is entirely consistent with the core tenets of liberalism, namely the "harm principle," which has been central to the concept of civil liberties for hundreds of years.

In the first chapter of "On Liberty," philosopher John Stuart Mill argues, "The only purpose for which power can be rightfully exercised over any member of a civilized community, against his will, is to prevent harm to others."

Likewise, France's "Declaration of the Rights of Man and of the Citizen of 1789," one of the most influential Enlightenment-era documents that helped philosophers in Europe and around the world develop the concept of civil liberty, includes a similar phrase.

"Liberty consists in the freedom to do everything which injures no one else; hence the exercise of the natural rights of each man has no limits except those which assure to the other members of the society the enjoyment of the same rights. These limits can only be determined by law," it reads.