Australia's international trust deficit
Editor's note: Daryl Guppy is an international financial technical analysis expert. He has provided weekly Shanghai Index analysis for Chinese mainland media for more than a decade. Guppy appears regularly on CNBC Asia and is known as "The Chart Man." He is a national board member of the Australia China Business Council. The article reflects the author's opinions and not necessarily the views of CGTN.

Diplomacy is what? In some ways, it's a difficult question to answer. It's far easier to define what diplomacy is not. Australia's Prime Minister Scott Morrison has given a master class in this in recent weeks. His method of diplomacy has attracted a public rebuke from the U.S. president and an unprecedented undiplomatic response from the French president.

French President Emmanuel Macron said: "The AUKUS deal was very bad news for France ¨C but not just for France, because I think it's very bad news for the credibility of Australia, and very bad news for the trust that great partners can have with the Australians. I think this is detrimental to the reputation of your country and your Prime Minister."

President Joe Biden told Macron that: "I was under the impression that France had been informed long before that the deal was not going through. I honest to God did not know you had not been (informed)."

Unchastened, Prime Minister Morrison's response was telling, insisting that the Americans had been fully informed and shifting blame to American officials for not keeping the president updated. Many found this unbelievable as a decision to allow access to American nuclear submarine technology could only have been taken by a fully informed president.

Political mileage will be made from this ham-fisted blundering but that misses a significant issue. The damage done to Australia's standing in the Indo-Pacific region was further intensified with the G20 meetings. The French president, who represents an anchor in the North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO) alliance and President Biden, the nominal leader of NATO, were forced into a public bridge-building exercise as a result of Australia's diplomatic blunders.

Nations from the Association of Southeast Asian Nations (ASEAN) region watched on with incredulity as they ratcheted down the level of credibility they assigned to Australia and its promises. What is at risk is not the $90 billion French submarine contract. What is at risk is the status and influence of Australia and its actions. Its seat at the table in Europe and at regional ASEAN organizations has been deeply tarnished.

Many believe that Australia simply cannot be trusted. This belief comes not primarily from the overturning of the French contract, but in the way the issue was handled.

Macron stated the core issue firmly and directly. "I don't think (Morrison) lied. I know he lied," he told reporters.

The Australian prime minister has quickly developed a reputation as a person whose words cannot be trusted, and who will say and do anything to secure short-term political advantage, with scant concern for the consequences.

To what extent does the action of a leader reflect the action of the nation? The answer is found in Australian politics where the response to French concerns has been dismissive and at times puerile.