Bayern suffer biggest loss in 43 years, Man City and Juventus stunned
The final score of 5-0 is on display on the scoreboard after the German Cup game between Moenchengladbach and Bayern Munich in Moenchengladbach, Germany, October 27, 2021. /CFP The final score of 5-0 is on display on the scoreboard after the German Cup game between Moenchengladbach and Bayern Munich in Moenchengladbach, Germany, October 27, 2021. /CFP

Shell-shocked Bayern Munich suffered their heaviest defeat in the German Cup on Wednesday night when their star-studded team was thrashed 5-0 at Borussia Moenchengladbach. Full-strength Bayern conceded the first goal after just 71 seconds and were 3-0 down with 21 minutes played. It was the first time in 27 years that Bayern conceded so many goals so early in any competition. It is the club's heaviest German Cup defeat, eclipsing a 5-1 quarter-final defeat at Cologne in 1972. French midfielder Kouadio Kone grabbed his first goal for Gladbach with barely a minute gone, then Algerian defender Ramy Bensebaini and Swiss striker Breel Embolo both scored twice in the rout. This is the second time in consecutive seasons Bayern have been dumped out of the cup in the second round having lost at Holstein Kiel last January after a penalty shoot-out.

Bayern Munich players appear shock after the club's heaviest defeat so far in the German Cup, in Moenchengladbach, Germany, October 27, 2021. /CFP Bayern Munich players appear shock after the club's heaviest defeat so far in the German Cup, in Moenchengladbach, Germany, October 27, 2021. /CFP

Earlier, Bundesliga side Bayer Leverkusen also suffered a cup upset when they were beaten 2-1 at home by second division Karlsruhe. South Korean forward Choi Kyoung-rok hit the winner in the second-round tie. Holders Dortmund are already into Sunday's draw for the third round after their 2-0 win at home over second-tier Ingolstadt on Tuesday. In England, West Ham ended Manchester City's four-year hold on the League Cup as Liverpool and Tottenham booked their places in the quarter-finals. City's record run in the competition came to an end at the London Stadium as the Hammers emerged 5-3 winners from a penalty shootout after both sides were guilty of missing plenty of chances in a 0-0 draw. Phil Foden was the only man to miss from the spot as Mark Noble, Jarrod Bowen, Craig Dawson, Aaron Cresswell and Said Benrahma all found the net for David Moyes' men. Liverpool will now fancy their chances of winning the League Cup for the first time in nine years, but had to overcome a poor start to win 2-0 at Preston. Tottenham's bid for a first trophy since they last won the League Cup in 2008 remains on course as Nuno Espirito Santo was rewarded for naming a strong side with a 1-0 win at Burnley.

Manchester City's Phil Foden reacts after a penalty miss during their English League Cup clash with West Ham United at the London Stadium, in London, England, October 27, 2021. /CFP Manchester City's Phil Foden reacts after a penalty miss during their English League Cup clash with West Ham United at the London Stadium, in London, England, October 27, 2021. /CFP

In Italy, Maxime Lopez stunned Juventus with a 95th-minute winner at the Allianz Stadium which earned Sassuolo a 2-1 win on Wednesday to leave their opponents lagging behind in the title race. French midfielder Lopez supplied a beautiful dinked finish after charging through on goal while Juve searched for a winner to condemn Massimiliano Allegri's side to a tough defeat. Juve are now 13 points away from league leaders AC Milan, who squeezed past Torino on Tuesday, and sit seventh after a result which was as disappointing as their performance. Alessio Dionisi's side, meanwhile, are up to ninth on 14 points, just one behind Juve after their first ever away win over Italian football's 'Old Lady'. Inter Milan stayed in touch with their city rivals with a routine 2-0 win at 10-man Empoli. Champions Inter went ahead through Danilo Ambrosio's header in the 34th minute and once Samuele Ricci was sent off six minutes after the break for a late tackle on Nicolo Barella there was only ever going to be one winner. Academy product Federico Dimarco tapped home Lautaro Martinez's low cross to make sure of the win with a quarter of the match remaining as Inter bounced back from being denied in the final second by fierce rivals Juve on Sunday.

Sassuolo players celebrate after winning Serie A clash over Juventus at Juventus Stadium in Turin, Italy, October 27, 2021. /CFP Sassuolo players celebrate after winning Serie A clash over Juventus at Juventus Stadium in Turin, Italy, October 27, 2021. /CFP

In Spain, Real Madrid returned to the top of La Liga, despite being held to a goalless draw by Osasuna, but Barcelona dropped to ninth after losing 1-0 to Rayo Vallecano, with Radamel Falcao scoring the winner. Karim Benzema struck the bar in the second half at the Santiago Bernabeu but Osasuna could have won it too, with Kike Garcia missing the best chance of the game when he hit the post from five yards. Madrid jump above Sevilla, Real Betis and Real Sociedad ¨C all four of them with 21 points ¨C on goal difference while Osasuna sit sixth after extending their strong start to the season.

Source(s): AFP