Biden's stalled domestic agenda raises questions about U.S. leadership
U.S. President Joe Biden arrives to meet with House Democrats at the U.S. Capitol on Capitol Hill in Washington, D.C., U.S., October 28, 2021. /Getty

U.S. President Joe Biden arrives to meet with House Democrats at the U.S. Capitol on Capitol Hill in Washington, D.C., U.S., October 28, 2021. /Getty

Editor's note: Bradley Blankenship is a Prague-based American journalist, political analyst and freelance reporter. The article reflects the author's opinions and not necessarily the views of CGTN.

Just before departing for the G20 summit in Rome this weekend, U.S. President Joe Biden gave a speech acknowledging that the current version of his social-spending bill in Congress, a key part of his domestic agenda, fell short of expectations.

"No one got everything they wanted, including me," he said. "But that's what compromise is."

The fact that the Biden agenda is stuck in gridlock, bitterly dividing Biden's Democratic Party, raises serious questions about U.S. leadership ¨C especially with regards to the outcome of the G20 summit and the UN's two-week 2021 Climate Change Conference of the Parties (COP26) that kicked off on October 31.

White House officials have insisted that world leaders understand the perplexities of American democracy, that things are tricky and that somehow this is actually a positive sign because it shows democracy in action. The reality could not be further from the truth.

Biden's domestic agenda started with a price tag of $3.5 trillion (this figure was spread out over 10 years, so it would have translated to $350 billion) but has since been cut in half to $1.75 trillion. While it still has the potential to be one of the largest expansions of federal spending in decades, it still lacks much-needed ambition.

Some programs on the chopping block were tuition-free community college, cuts to prescription drug prices and paid family leave. All of these are broadly popular policies that were cut down by two "centrist" Democratic senators, Joe Manchin of West Virginia and Kyrsten Sinema of Arizona, who collectively represent less than 3 percent of the country's population yet effectively control all major legislation.

An August poll in last year by the Pew Research Center found that 63 percent of U.S. adults actually support making all public colleges free, not just community colleges, though there were stark partisan divides. Polls have also consistently shown that paid family leave is broadly supported by most U.S. adults, regardless of party, and the U.S. is currently the only industrialized nation on the planet to not have it.

Probably most shocking, according to a recent poll by the Kaiser Family Foundation, 83 percent of U.S. adults believe the cost of prescription of drugs is unreasonable. Further, a significant amount of adults also reported not taking their drugs as prescribed due to a lack of affordability.