Bombing women and children is never 'self-defense'
Editor's note: Andrew Korybko is a Moscow-based American political analyst. The article reflects the author's views and not necessarily those of CGTN.

U.S. President Joe Biden's pledge to recalibrate his country's foreign and military policies toward a more values-driven approach was just exposed as insincere by a spokesman from its Central Command. Captain Bill Urban was responding to The New York Times' recent report that the Pentagon covered up a strike against the self-described "Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant" ISIL terrorist group, also known simply as IS, in Syria in 2019 during the time of former U.S. President Donald Trump.

According to the outlet, there were several dozen casualties that included women and children. Urban could have easily blamed the Trump administration for these killings but instead sought to defend that infamous attack as justified. He said an investigation concluded that they were "legitimate self-defense strikes" because "multiple armed women and at least one armed child were observed in the video" that was relayed to drone operators at the time.

No matter what he says, it's never "self-defense" for anyone to bomb civilians. Observing some armed women and one armed child among the group isn't an excuse for killing everyone else. The U.S. should have exercised humanitarian discretion and called off the attack. This was a war crime for which nobody else will be held accountable but the perpetrator, the Pentagon itself.

Having said that, there's also no denying that terrorist groups rely on human shields to deter these types of attacks. That's definitely problematic and cannot be justified either. Be that as it may, those who attack them should modify their tactics to avoid civilian casualties. Since the terrorists were already under surveillance, the strike could have been conducted at another time when there weren't any human shields around.

This interpretation of events speaks to the threat that the U.S. military poses to everyone in the many countries that it operates, sometimes illegally, like in Syria, and other times with the host country's permission. Despite preaching a foreign policy full of "democracy" and "human rights," its military policy blatantly contradicts this rhetoric, thus rendering it nothing more than unconvincing propaganda spewed for soft power purposes.