Braves beat Astros, one win from claiming World Series title
Players of the Atlanta Braves celebrate their 3-2 win over the Houston Astros in Game 4 of the World Series at Truist Park in Atlanta, Georgia, U.S., October 30, 2021. /CFP Players of the Atlanta Braves celebrate their 3-2 win over the Houston Astros in Game 4 of the World Series at Truist Park in Atlanta, Georgia, U.S., October 30, 2021. /CFP

The Atlanta Braves defeated the Houston Astros 3-2 in Game 4 of the World Series at Truist Park on Saturday, leading the series 3-1. This was the Braves' second straight win at home and it put the team one win away from winning the World Series title again since 1995. "I'm happy for our city that they can go through this, experience this," said the Braves' manager Brian Snitker. "What a great time of year. For the city, the Braves County, to experience all this, for our players to experience it ¨C it's a win-win situation." The team made a shocking decision of making Dylan Lee the starter for Game 4 because Charlie Morton had broken his leg. Lee only made his major league debut less than a month ago. No pitcher ever made their first start in the World Series.

Jose Altuve (front) of the Houston Astros hits a solo home run in the fourth inning of Game 4 of the World Series against the Atlanta Baraves at Truist Park, October 30, 2021. /CFP Jose Altuve (front) of the Houston Astros hits a solo home run in the fourth inning of Game 4 of the World Series against the Atlanta Baraves at Truist Park, October 30, 2021. /CFP

Lee faced four batters in total. Jose Altuve started off with a hit. Lee had a strikeout against Alex Bregman but sent Michael Brantley and Yordan Alvarez to base on balls before he was replaced by Kyle Wright. Wright allowed one run due to a grounder by Carlos Correa in the first inning. The Astros had the chance to expand their lead in the following two innings, including loading the bases in the third inning, but failed to score another run until Altuve made it 2-0 with a home run in the fourth inning. However, that's the end of the Astros' scoring performance on Saturday. They left 11 on base in total in Game 4 and were hitless for eight scoring positions. "We usually pick those runners up," said the team's manager Dusty Baker after Game 4. "We left quite a few runners on base. We really had them on the ropes in the first inning and we came out of there with one."

Dansby Swanson (R) of the Atlanta Braves hits a solo home run in the seventh inning of Game 4 of the World Series against the Houston Astros at Truist Park, October 30, 2021. /CFP Dansby Swanson (R) of the Atlanta Braves hits a solo home run in the seventh inning of Game 4 of the World Series against the Houston Astros at Truist Park, October 30, 2021. /CFP