Canberra's confrontational foreign policy is haunting it
Prime Minister Scott Morrison listens (R) as Minister for Defence Peter Dutton speaks during Question Time in the House of Representatives at Parliament House in Canberra, Australia, June 2, 2021. /Getty

Prime Minister Scott Morrison listens (R) as Minister for Defence Peter Dutton speaks during Question Time in the House of Representatives at Parliament House in Canberra, Australia, June 2, 2021. /Getty

Editor's note: Hamzah Rifaat Hussain, a former visiting fellow at the Stimson Center in Washington and former assistant researcher at the Islamabad Policy Research Institute, is a TV anchor at Indus News in Pakistan. The article reflects the author's opinions and not necessarily those of CGTN.

Australia's persistence with adopting a confrontational policy on China is backfiring. The fact that Australian Defense Minister Peter Dutton called for standing up to "bullying" days after Chinese President Xi Jinping held a virtual meeting with U.S. President Joe Biden demonstrates Canberra's repeated failure in understanding the regional and global dynamics while brazenly employing bellicose rhetoric. A decline in approval ratings and a misguided sense of entitlement has meant that domestic confidence is eroding, and Australia's binary approach has few takers internationally.

Take the response to Australia's scathing attacks on China from the Australian public as an example. Domestic satisfaction with Australian Prime Minister Scott Morrison's performance has dropped to 44 percent. As the Australian government persisted with discarding China and parroted the previously discredited former U.S. President Donald Trump's policy of unilaterally seeking to isolate, the massive disconnect between public and foreign policy within Australia's milieu has been cemented.

Furthermore, the expected improvement in the China-U.S. bilateral relationship after the virtual meeting, despite lingering differences, leaves Australia to be the only country, despite limited international clout, choosing to berate another sovereign state unjustifiably. The strategy failed to work back then and will fail in the future.

The reasons are obvious. Previously, Canberra was content with the nuclearization of the Asia Pacific with the military pact among the United States, Britain and Australia, known as AUKUS, tilting deterrence stability and providing Australia with a perceived cover to ward off. Yet statements from Australian Prime Minister and Defense Minister after the virtual meeting between President Xi and President Biden underline an orientation which perhaps even Washington D.C. would not consider appropriate. Morrison unveiled a list of 63 critical technologies, including artificial intelligence, quantum technologies and vaccines subject to additional risk assessments in Australia, as an attempt to safeguard against "national security risks."