Certain Western reporters want to knock China, not report on Olympics
Editor's note: CGTN's First Voice provides instant commentary on breaking stories. The daily column clarifies emerging issues and better defines the news agenda, offering a Chinese perspective on the latest global events.

The hypocrisy of some Western correspondents in China would be funny if it wasn't so dangerous.

One of the many strange quirks of the coronavirus epidemic is that the 2022 Winter Olympics will be held a mere six months after the 2020 Summer Olympics concluded.

Stranger still is the global reaction to COVID-19 restrictions put in place to protect the public from the host countries.

In Japan, foreign media were not allowed outside the Olympic bubble. Reporters were accompanied by handlers to make sure they stayed within the boundaries of their hotels, the main press center and approved venues.

Interviewing ordinary Japanese people was banned, as was talking to athletes or organizers outside of official media events.

Some reporters wrote stories about how difficult it was to report under these conditions, but correspondents were generally sympathetic to Japan's goal of stopping the spread of COVID-19.

In the run-up to the Winter Olympics, China's COVID-19 situation is more precarious than Japan's.

Through the hard work of contact tracing and strict public health measures, China has so far managed to stamp out nearly every outbreak of the epidemic through effective public health measures, keeping the number of cases and deaths low.

There are too many lives at stake for China to allow a repeat of what happened with the Tokyo Games. On July 23, the first day of the Summer Games, Japan reported more than 4,000 COVID-19 cases. On August 26, 18 days after the Games ended, the number of cases in Japan had jumped six-fold to more than 24,000, before subsiding.

Bearing this in mind, you would think that reporters would be sympathetic to China's efforts to protect its people and all the participants to avoid a COVID-19 surge.

However, you would be wrong.