CGTN's 'Into Tibet' documentary explores the 'Roof of the World'
19:28

CGTN's documentary "Into Tibet with International Vloggers Daniel and Noel" follows two vloggers, Daniel from Canada and Noel from Spain, to document their experiences as they travel through China's Tibet Autonomous Region, dubbed the "Roof of the World." The production was filmed during CGTN's "Into Tibet 2020" journey. The 20-minute documentary uses a lighthearted style of narration and down-to-earth montages showcasing Tibet's scenery, local people's livelihood, transportation systems, religion, education and medical treatment from a holistic perspective.



The shooting style gives the audience a strong sense of immersion and reality, while displaying how the trip subtly changed Daniel and Noel's mindset.

Daniel and Noel started their trip in August 2020 and ended in September, setting out from Tibet's capital city Lhasa and heading to different directions in Tibet.



The journey was Noel's first time visiting Tibet, and many unforgettable moments were recorded on camera.



Heading east, Noel's route went from Lhasa to Qamdo by way of Nyingchi, sometimes called the "Switzerland" of Tibet. The journey not only explored the rich plant life and well-preserved original ecological features of the region, but also different aspects of Tibetan cultural heritage.



"What really excited me was most of the traditions and culture there are being preserved really well," said Noel during the trip.

Vloggers Daniel from Canada (L) and Noel from Spain(R) introduce themselves at the beginning of the trip. /CGTN Vloggers Daniel from Canada (L) and Noel from Spain(R) introduce themselves at the beginning of the trip. /CGTN Noel talks to a local lady during his trip in China's Tibet Autonomous Region. /CGTN Noel talks to a local lady during his trip in China's Tibet Autonomous Region. /CGTN Daniel introduces viewers to the Laigu Glacier in Qamdo, China's Tibet Autonomous Region. /CGTN Daniel introduces viewers to the Laigu Glacier in Qamdo, China's Tibet Autonomous Region. /CGTN