China's vision of eco-civilization can prevent the end of history
Dicui Gorge of the "Small Three Gorges" scenic area in Wushan County, southwest China's Chongqing, June 29, 2017. /Xinhua Dicui Gorge of the "Small Three Gorges" scenic area in Wushan County, southwest China's Chongqing, June 29, 2017. /Xinhua

Editor's note: Keith Lamb is a University of Oxford graduate with an MSc degree in Contemporary Chinese Studies. His primary research interests are China's international relations and "socialism with Chinese characteristics." The article reflects the author's opinions and not necessarily the views of CGTN. Up until now, the world has followed the path founded in the West of industrial civilization. Its primary liberal political-economic model, characterized by unfettered private capital, has too often been eulogized as a perfect creation serving humanity. Indeed, it has been applauded as representing a utopian "end of history" which gives it a false quality of being representative of nature itself.

However, continuing down this path, of industrial civilization, will lead to the very destruction of nature and humanity which will inevitably lead to a dystopian "end of history." With Western capital shipping polluting industries to East Asia, the clean skies of Europe and America are merely illusionary. This illusion cannot distort Westerners' sense of common urgency to act together with the rest of the developing world. We all have a responsibility to protect our common Earth which serves as the only foundation for shared human rights. China, after decades of being entranced by industrial civilization and experiencing its ill effects, has now turned the corner. It recognizes there is no other choice but to transform itself into an ecological civilization where green industries, low carbon emissions, renewable energy, and green consumer lifestyle patterns are the norm. Furthermore, considering we have only one Earth, this emerging civilization must be the new pattern for the whole of humanity. A white paper, published by China's State Council Information Office entitled "Responding to Climate Change: China's Policies and Actions," was recently released in an effort to share China's experiences with the international community regarding this aforementioned historical mission. It clearly states that "China has abandoned its previous development model that damaged or even destroyed the environment." China's aim of building a global community with a shared future rests on restoring harmony between nature and humanity. It is not in opposition to productivity for this philosophy believes an ecological approach leads to "people-centered" development and thus improves productivity. Those who are trapped in the nightmarish propaganda that "industrial civilization," brought to us by capital-dominated societies, reflects a universal good no doubt think that the term "ecological civilization" sounds utopian.

Langzhong ancient town in southwest China's Sichuan Province, July 8, 2016. /Xinhua Langzhong ancient town in southwest China's Sichuan Province, July 8, 2016. /Xinhua