China Int'l Cartoon & Animation Festival 2021 opens in Hangzhou
00:35

One of the largest events on Asia's animation calendar and a grand celebration for anime creators and fans, the China International Cartoon & Animation Festival (CICAF) opened on Wednesday as a hybrid event, showcasing a wide array of diverse digital and physical activities. The annual event, now in its 17th edition, runs from September 29 to October 4 at the main venue, the White Horse Lake International Exhibition Center, and around 10 sub venues across Hangzhou City, east China's Zhejiang Province, with virtual exhibitions and trade fairs taking place via "Online CICAF," a digital platform launched on its official website.

A virtual trade fair takes place via "Online CICAF," a digital platform launched on the official website of China Intl Cartoon & Animation Festival 2021, in Hangzhou, Zhejiang Province, east China, September 29, 2021. /CICAF A virtual trade fair takes place via "Online CICAF," a digital platform launched on the official website of China Intl Cartoon & Animation Festival 2021, in Hangzhou, Zhejiang Province, east China, September 29, 2021. /CICAF

With participants from more than 50 countries and regions, CICAF 2021 observes a wide range of creative activities, such as an industry expo, awards ceremony, exhibitions, promotions, forums, cosplay shows, and online livestreams.

More interactive, immersive experiences

Spanning over 80,000 square meters at the White Horse Lake Animation Plaza, this year's CICAF Industry Expo attracts 118 animation and game enterprises at home and abroad, presenting more than 300 well-known brands such as Hello Kitty, Marvel and Lego. The event incorporates advanced technologies like artificial intelligence, 5G and virtual reality to offer visitors more interactive, immersive experiences. The world's largest Iron Man sculpture, measuring fives meters high and 540 kilograms, will also debut at the expo.

The poster for the mobile card game "Marvel Duel". /CICAF The poster for the mobile card game "Marvel Duel". /CICAF

The 17th CICAF Golden Monkey King Awards poster. /CICAF The 17th CICAF Golden Monkey King Awards poster. /CICAF

The six-day festival will also unveil the winners of the Golden Monkey King Awards ¨C the top honor in China's anime arena ¨C which is scheduled to be held Wednesday night.

This year's contest will see 89 shortlisted entries, selected from 1,175 original animation works from 16 countries and regions, vie for the glittery monkey king trophies.

Engaging professionals and fans alike

One of the CICAF highlights, the International Animation & Game Business Conference (iABC), was launched in advance online and onsite on Monday, featuring a series of panel discussions, seminars, venture capital conferences and workshops.

00:35

The event, which runs through to September 29, has seen some titles make their debut and screened various international works, with a special screening event of Brazilian animated short films such as "Way of Giants" and "Lines and Spirals." With nearly 200 companies, over 60 buyers and numerous participants from 47 countries and regions, this year's iABC aims to serve as a comprehensive, effective service platform for animation, cartoon and games (ACG) industry insiders, engaging and entertaining professionals and fans alike.

The organizers say the hybrid festival, one of the first major international animation festivals to go online during the COVID-19 pandemic, is expected to bridge numerous ACG fans, buyers and sellers around the globe.

Larissa Costa, public diplomacy director of the Embassy of the Federal Republic of Brazil in China, speaks at the Special Exhibition of Brazilian Animation Short Films during the iABC in Hangzhou, east China's Zhejiang Province, September 28, 2021. /CICAF Larissa Costa, public diplomacy director of the Embassy of the Federal Republic of Brazil in China, speaks at the Special Exhibition of Brazilian Animation Short Films during the iABC in Hangzhou, east China's Zhejiang Province, September 28, 2021. /CICAF

Visitors need to book tickets online in advance and are required to provide negative nucleic acid test certificates within 48 hours, show their health codes before entering the venues and must wear a mask. Launched in 2005, the event, sponsored by the National Radio and Television Administration, China Media Group and the Zhejiang provincial government, is staged by the Hangzhou municipal government, the Zhejiang Provincial Radio and Television Administration and the Zhejiang Radio & TV Group. Last year, the 16th CICAF welcomed about 740,000 visitors and 2,680 domestic and foreign enterprises and saw contracts worth 250 million yuan (about $38.69 million) signed.