China is leading the way out of the world's many crises
Editor's note: Andrew Korybko is a Moscow-based American political analyst. The article reflects the author's views and not necessarily those of CGTN.

The world is in the midst of interconnected crises that have caused confusion and uncertainty about the future. The U.S. used to lead the international community's efforts during such times back during the brief days when it was still the unipolar hegemon, but its fading power and influence over the years created the opportunity for China to demonstrate the way forward instead. Whether it's COVID-19, the challenges connected with Big Tech, or geopolitical tensions, the country is leading the way out of the world's many crises.

Starting with the pandemic, China has shown the international community the most effective way to contain the virus' spread. Its depoliticized and purely scientific approach to everything set the global standard for how to respond to epidemiological crises. Not only that, but it also was the first country to achieve one billion vaccinations. In addition, China has donated millions of vaccines to fellow developing countries, which is consistent with Chinese President Xi Jinping's well-known support for their interests in all international fora.

The country is also exemplified by its proactive approach to climate change. President Xi announced that China will reach carbon neutrality before 2060. It's scaling up its investment in alternative power sources while divesting from traditional ones like coal. Its carbon emissions per unit continue to drop and the country is the world's largest producer of green technologies, the latter of which are increasingly being exported to developing countries.

The global economic crisis weighs heavily on everyone's mind, but China recovered quicker than anyone else. This is because of its structurally sound economic fundamentals. The country is nowadays focused on balancing between internal and external trade per its new development paradigm of dual circulation. Globalization might have been irreparably damaged had it not been for China leading the charge to revive this model through its mutually beneficial trade and investment practices.