China's top snowboarder gears up for the upcoming Olympic Games
The top Chinese snowboarder and 2018 Winter Olympics silver medalist, Liu Jiayu, is going through practice drills in Switzerland for the upcoming games in Beijing. She has recovered from a spine injury in the World Halfpipe Championship in February last year.

"It almost took me one year to recover. My spine was injured, and the recovery took a little longer than expected. I am lucky there were no fractures and no life-threatening injuries," she said.

Liu said that after recovering from the injury, at the start of this year, she mainly did physical training to increase strength and stamina and followed her coach's instructions and did a full preliminary preparation.

"I am in snow training and gradually boosted exercises I did during the summertime and have my feeling back on snow again. I will begin new training and increase the difficulty," the multiple world championships winner said.

"Now, I am satisfied with my crippler. That's a flipping movement that I didn't do much before, and I added that later. In fact, there will not only be spin movements alone, and there should also be many tricks and sets of arrangement. We've had many adjustments," she said.

The pandemic disturbed her preparation plan for the games to a certain extent, but during the summer, she did exercises with her coach based on the epidemic prevention and control requirements of the national team.

"We trained and improved in weak links. With my coaches, I jumped on the trampoline and constantly practiced actions in the air. Then, I imagined and imitated and then watched training videos. In this way, we tried to narrow the gap with others as much as possible," she said.

"In the following months before the games, I will not flinch, and I will try my best to go beyond my limits and take part in the games wholeheartedly, and I hope that I can get a satisfactory result. This is my goal, and I will seize the moment now and do my best," she said.

"Now, with the Winter Games, here comes the 'Dual Olympics.' People in other countries gave it great recognition and expectation. The pandemic certainly increased workloads and difficulty in holding the games, but the Olympics could be held in a completely good way," said international athlete friends of Liu, who is confident that the Beijing 2022 will be successful.

