China walks the talk in fighting climate change
Editor's note: CGTN's First Voice provides instant commentary on breaking stories. The daily column clarifies emerging issues and better defines the news agenda, offering a Chinese perspective on the latest global events.

A joint pledge by China and the U.S. to work together to slow climate change has given a boost to the COP26 climate talks in Glasgow.

China and the U.S. have had a difficult relationship in recent years, but this deal shows the two nations can and must cooperate, because the destiny of all of humankind is bound together. It shows that by focusing on areas of common interest, the world's two largest economies can cooperate for the sake of protecting their own people, and the people of the world.

The stakes could not be higher. UK Prime Minister Boris Johnson, whose nation is hosting the talks, has warned of a climate "apocalypse," and said society could collapse with "terrifying speed" like the Roman Empire if global warming was not slowed dramatically.

The deal is a surprise partly because the U.S., terrified of losing its global hegemony, has been focused on containing China through economic aggression, disinformation campaigns and forging new security alliances.

However, the threat of climate change is so severe that the U.S. has to put aside its power games for the moment. China-U.S. cooperation comes amid the stark reality that the emissions of all nations, if they follow their plans, are estimated to have 13.7 percent higher emissions than the 2010 level in 2030.

Despite recent tensions, China and the U.S. have not always been at loggerheads, and have successfully cooperated in many areas in the past.

For example, in 2014, then-president Barak Obama and President Xi Jinping reached a breakthrough deal to jointly curb emissions that helped pave the way for the Paris climate agreement a year later.

While the current pledge may not be as sweeping in scope, it could be just as important, considering the recent tension between the two nations and the increasing urgency to act as floods, fires, hurricanes and other symptoms of climate change increase in intensity and frequency around the world.