China has big head-start in achieving G20 goals
Editor's note: CGTN's First Voice provides instant commentary on breaking stories. The daily column clarifies emerging issues and better defines the news agenda, offering a Chinese perspective on the latest global events.

This year's G20 summit is focused on climate change, recovering from the COVID-19 pandemic, and economic recovery ¡ª three areas in which China is leading the world.

This G20 conference has three pillars of action ¡ª planet, people, and prosperity.

Under the "planet" banner, China's progress in reducing its carbon intensity is unparalleled in history, and China has already started taking serious actions to reach its eventual goal of bringing carbon emissions to zero.

One of the signs that China is taking this task seriously is the recent bungled efforts by local officials to reach carbon goals using the blunt tool of rationing power, which contributed to local power cuts.

This is not the proper way forward. The central government has dispatched experts to help guide local officials to reach the carbon goals in a more nuanced and sustainable way, such as phasing out wasteful or polluting industries and increasing the level of green energy production.

However, this chapter does show that China is very serious about reaching its carbon targets and has already gotten serious about putting green policies in place. Local officials know that they will be judged by the successful implementation of these policies.

Under the "people" banner, the G20 agenda calls on nations to eradicate poverty, as mandated by the first Sustainable Development Goals (SDG) of the United Nations. China has already eliminated absolute poverty, nine years ahead of schedule.

Another goal is tackling the COVID-19 health crisis. China has been a role model for the world in fighting the epidemic and has pledged to donate 100 million more COVID-19 vaccine doses to developing countries this year.

In his address to the G20 by video link, President Xi Jinping urged world leaders to be united in the fight against the epidemic.

The United States, which boasts of having the most advanced medical system in the world, has suffered more than 745,000 deaths from COVID-19. Yet, it still focuses on discredited conspiracy theories trying to pin the blame for COVID-19 on other countries.

In contrast, by using basic and well-known public health methods, China has suffered a death toll of 4,636 from the epidemic to date. China has also developed its own vaccines, which it is sharing with the world. This again boils down to the issue of governance capacity.

China has also developed its own vaccines, which it is sharing with the world.