China is not the main source of economic problems in the West
Editor's note: Dinos Stasinopoulos is a former European Commission official. He is currently a consultant in global economics and governance. The article reflects the author's opinions and not necessarily the views of CGTN.

China's rise in the past 20 to 30 years with its large-scale poverty reduction, huge infrastructure investments and leadership in tech innovation has been an economic miracle. At the same time, the relative decline of the U.S. has led to a shift in the global economic and trade activities towards Asia and, in particular, China. These developments have tempted Western countries and, in particular, the U.S. political establishment to assume that China is the source of their economic problems. Consequently, their policy pendulum has changed from a consensus on supporting engagement with China to one calling for measures to thwart China's growing clout. The U.S. has even introduced punitive measures involving, inter alia, cutting China off the global supply chains, constraining investments by multinationals and imposing customs charges on imports from China. Countries in Europe have also called for changes in trade policies to reduce extensive reliance on imports from China and other Asian countries.

It seems, however, that these measures so far have further encouraged China to redesign its supply chains and reduce the impacts of these measures. For China, no matter how important social media, e-commerce and consumer internet companies are, their impact on the real economy is not as great as manufacturing. State-of-the-art semiconductors, electric car batteries, commercial aircraft and telecommunications equipment are high priorities in rerouting supply chains for China.

In contrast, the U.S.'s emphasis on decoupling of its economy from China has prevented it from seriously reframing the foundations of its economy and addressing the underlying causes of its relative decline. In the U.S., the manufacturing sector and its capacity to innovate has been declining, while China's networks of suppliers, engineers and production experts have been growing ever more sophisticated in production quality and efficiency. The U.S. manufacturing nationalism prevents it from acknowledging the limits of a "U.S. First" policy. Protecting U.S. multinationals at all costs in an interdependent and interconnected global economy does not make economic sense and would harm everybody. In addition to the U.S., certain European countries have considered or already adopted policies with an emphasis on manufacturing nationalism.