China and UN are building a brighter future at CIIE
Editor's note: Andy Mok is a research fellow at the Center for China and Globalization. The article reflects the author's opinions and not necessarily the views of CGTN.

In a speech delivered at the Center for China and Globalization to commemorate the 50th anniversary of the restoration of China's lawful seat to the United Nations, Siddharth Chatterjee, the UN Resident Coordinator in China, emphasized that they would continue to march in lockstep with China. And there is perhaps no greater proof of this than at the China International Import Expo (CIIE), whose partners include the UN Development Program, the UN Conference on Trade and Development, the Food and Agriculture Organization of the UN and the UN Industrial Development Organization. This close alignment shows China's unwavering support of both globalization and multilateralism as well as its commitment to realizing the goals of common prosperity not just for itself but also for the world.

CIIE was announced in May 2017 by President Xi Jinping at the Belt and Road Forum for International Cooperation with the first exhibition held in 2018. Since then, interest from businesses around the world from Albania to Zambia in CIIE has grown because of China's market size, rising incomes and increasingly favorable legal and policy environment. But the partnership with multiple UN organizations demonstrates that CIIE is not only about promoting commercial interests.

The COVID-19 pandemic exacerbated inequality among and within countries. Moreover, the climate crisis has become what UN officials call a "code red" situation. And while enormous strides have been made in reducing extreme poverty, an estimated 10 percent of the world's population or about 700 million people still suffer from this scourge. In response to these crises, China has risen to the challenge by offering a people-oriented governing philosophy combined with political will and practical execution capabilities in a holistic approach that it calls "common prosperity," which encompasses material, cultural and spiritual prosperity that is informed by traditional Chinese philosophy and modern-day socialism.