China continues to keep the opening-up promise
Editor's note: Stephen Ndegwa is a Nairobi-based communication expert, lecturer-scholar at the United States International University-Africa, author and international affairs columnist. The article reflects the author's opinions and not necessarily the views of CGTN.

The 4th China International Import Expo (CIIE) just ended at the National Exhibition and Convention Center in Shanghai. Touted as the world's largest single block building and exhibition complex with a total construction area of nearly 1.5 million square meters, the venue was testament of the significance the CIIE continues to have in China's quest to open up wider.

Since the first event in 2018, the CIIE has been an annual fixture on China's calendar of top global events aimed at welcoming visitors seeking various opportunities in the second largest economy in the world. Undoubtedly, China is on an opening-up spree. CIIE is part of events with similar objectives, including the Canton Fair, the China International Fair for Investment and Trade and the China International Consumer Goods Fair.

The "World Openness Report 2021," a study analyzing global trends in opening-up, economic governance, global trade and investment, raised the country's index ranking from 62 in 2008 to 40 in 2019, up 22 places. Conversely, the United States, which was the most open economy in 2008, slumped to the 22nd place. The evidence is clear on the culprit in dragging the world behind in establishing a multilateral trading regime as espoused by the World Trade Organization (WTO).

This difference is indicting to the U.S. which has always portrayed China as the villain in the tariff tussle between them. With the increasing opening up initiatives, China is expected to be among the top 10 most open countries in the next report, joining the current ones including Germany, the United Kingdom, Switzerland, France and Canada.

Since joining the WTO 20 years ago, China's foreign trade increased nine times, with total trade value increasing by 810 percent compared to an average 180 percent increase for global trade. This makes it the biggest trading country globally ahead of the U.S., which has earned it the tag as the "the world's factory." But its imports have also been increasing tremendously, thanks to its gradual reduction of tariffs.

Experts hail the CIIE as a platform where developing and developed countries enjoy equal opportunities purely on merit. It is a model of the future that advocates for multilateral trade relations between all countries and reciprocity in sharing their market opportunities.