China's emissions trading scheme gains allure amid COP26 chaos
China's special climate envoy Xie Zhenhua speaks during a briefing on the joint China-U.S. statement on climate action at the COP26 climate change conference in Glasgow, Scotland, November 10, 2021. /Getty China's special climate envoy Xie Zhenhua speaks during a briefing on the joint China-U.S. statement on climate action at the COP26 climate change conference in Glasgow, Scotland, November 10, 2021. /Getty

Editor's note: Huang Yongfu is an economic affairs commentator. After earning a PhD, he started his career at the University of Cambridge and then moved on to the United Nations system. He is the author of many papers and books related to economics. His current interests lie in global development and Sino-U.S. links, especially trade, financial and technological issues. The article reflects the author's opinions and not necessarily the views of CGTN. After two weeks of climate talks at the COP26 summit in Glasgow, Scotland, the first major climate meeting since more than 190 nations and regions signed the Paris Agreement in 2016, negotiators are grappling with two fundamental problems: a pledge by all parties to reach the "net zero" target by some future date and a pledge by developed countries to pay poor countries for more carbon dioxide reductions.

The United Nations says that governments' current emissions-reduction plans would allow for more global warming, about 2.7 degrees Celsius, than the target set by the Paris Climate Accords which is well under two degrees Celsius and striving for 1.5 degrees Celsius by the end of the century compared with the pre-industrial era. The UN also points out that some of the biggest economies, like the U.S., aren't on track to put in place climate policies needed to meet their targets, while India is prominent by giving a slower than expected deadline of 2070 for slashing its emissions. Developing countries are demanding that wealthy nations pay them at least $1.3 trillion annually starting in 2030. However, the first pledge of $100 billion a year from 2020 through 2025 made by rich countries in 2009 still hasn't been honored. Given the difficulty of getting through the voluntary commitments of all parties, market-based government policies are sensible outlets, such as carbon pricing everywhere (via a cap-and-trade system or a carbon tax), instead of subsidies, mandates or prescriptive regulatory rules. They have the potential to foster meaningful emissions reductions across the globe in a most cost-effective way. It is reassuring that climate negotiators have revived a long-stalled process toward a deal aimed at establishing the foundation of an international carbon-trading system. Since 2005, some governments have introduced mandatory carbon markets for some industries, including the European Union (EU), California and some cities of China, where companies can trade so-called carbon-offset credits. In general, those markets have been criticized for lacking consistent standards and oversight, among others. Since July, at least three important developments have occurred. The EU has taken the lead in carbon tariffs, followed by the U.S., while China has launched the largest carbon trading market in the world.

A screen displaying real-time information about national carbon emissions trading in Wuhan, central China's Hubei Province, July 16, 2021. /Xinhua A screen displaying real-time information about national carbon emissions trading in Wuhan, central China's Hubei Province, July 16, 2021. /Xinhua