Chinese President Xi Jinping reminds G20 of its responsibilities
Editor's note: Andrew Korybko is a Moscow-based American political analyst. The article reflects the author's views and not necessarily those of CGTN.

Chinese President Xi Jinping on October 30 addressed the 16th Group of 20 (G20) Leaders' Summit in Rome via video link, reminding its members of their global responsibilities to sustainably develop their economies, reduce emissions, and perhaps most importantly, to urgently cooperate in order to end the COVID-19 pandemic as soon as possible.

The last of these suggestions saw the Chinese leader elaborate on exactly how this could come about while introducing his Global Vaccine Cooperation Action Initiative (GVCAI).

First, vaccine research and development must be strengthened in partnership with developing countries. Second, developing countries should have equitable access to vaccines. Third, vaccine IP rights should be waived and such technology be transferred to developing countries. Fourth, cross-border trade should be scaled up to facilitate access to raw vaccine materials and their final products' equitable export. Fifth, all vaccines should be treated equally. And sixth, developing countries need financial support for purchasing vaccines.

The GVCAI is very pragmatic. In fact, all of what President Xi proposed should already have been happening. The fact that it hasn't yet come to pass speaks to how some major countries' self-interested policies have inadvertently extended the pandemic. Some of them such as the U.S. also take a politicized stance toward the virus' origins instead of respecting the scientific data from the World Health Organization's study earlier this year.

The pandemic wasn't the only topic of discussion that the Chinese leader touched upon during his speech, as was earlier mentioned. President Xi also criticized the formation of exclusive blocs, which he warned will only harm scientific and technological innovation. He advised major economies to responsibly manage their economies with the proper policies that ensure there isn't any negative spillover for developing economies, which is crucial as the global economy begins to recover.