Climate change is a design problem, incentivized ingenuity can fix it
Editor's note: David Fradin is the president and founder of Spice Catalyst and a professor at Manipal University. The article reflects the author's opinions and not necessarily those of CGTN.

Climate change is the defining struggle of our generation. However, far too much of our global energy infrastructure and consumer goods production is still reliant on fossil fuels. I believe that groundbreaking product design, encouraged by a coherent tax incentive strategy, could inspire the innovations that could build the green technologies of tomorrow.

Asking people to eat less meat and drive fewer miles is, quite simply, too little too late. To save ourselves and the planet, we need to aggressively stimulate green innovation. That's why it's time to offer tax credits to those companies who are searching for the next radical carbon-friendly inventions.

Our current methods for tackling climate change aren't working. Relying on individuals to reform their short-term behavior for a long-term goal is notoriously difficult. We are prone to a collective "cognitive dissonance," whereby our actions do not reflect our beliefs.

According to a Pew Research Center survey in 2019, 62 percent of Americans say that climate change is affecting their local neighborhood. However, only 23 percent of Americans reported eating less meat in that same year, even though the link between meat production and carbon dioxide emissions has been irrefutably established, an opinion poll by the American analytics and advisory company Gallup found.

I understand why this is. Most agree that eating meat is part of their way of life; you simply cannot rewrite a culture overnight. As humans, we have spent the past 200,000 years tending to the present, whether that be food, shelter or mating. Thinking in the long term is quite unnatural for us.

The debate over what people ought to do is irrelevant. Asking whole populations to change lifelong behaviors is futile. As Behavioral psychologist and Nobel Laureate Richard Thaler famously asserted, "If you want people to do something, make it easy."

That's why I believe climate change is a design problem. We need to be encouraged to create products and solutions that are easy to use and can have a neutral or positive impact on the environment. Of course, individuals need to adjust their behavior to lower their personal emissions. That's why we need to give them the tools they need when doing so.

There are promising examples of this happening already. Researchers have found that feeding seaweed to cattle can reduce their methane output by up to 82 percent. Similarly, a company called Apeel has produced a plant-based coating that allows fresh produce to stay for twice as long.