COP26 - all eyes on China but none on the real polluters
U.S. President Joe Biden and UK Prime Minister Boris Johnson are seen greeting with each other during the COP26 climate conference in Glasgow, Scotland, November 1, 2021. /Getty U.S. President Joe Biden and UK Prime Minister Boris Johnson are seen greeting with each other during the COP26 climate conference in Glasgow, Scotland, November 1, 2021. /Getty

Editor's note: Johannes Drooghaag is the CEO of Spearhead Management, a technology consulting firm in Germany. The article reflects the author's opinions, and not necessarily the views of CGTN. COP26 is the 26th "Conference of Parties" in the field of climate change since 1995. It brings together governments and invited guests to discuss and review how climate change is managed and how effective the implemented measures are. As the title suggests, this is the 26th conference which means that there have already been 25 such conferences during a period in which climate change manifested in many ways and the climate crisis became the most urgent topic at hand globally.

25 conferences with great slogans and a long chain of commitments which are hardly kept throughout the quarter of a century since the Conference of Parties took place the first time in Berlin in 1995. 25 gatherings of politicians, activists, celebrities, and the accompanying media circus to deliver promises about results that were not delivered in the previous years. Several Western countries show what they have achieved for themselves without showing how they achieved it. A display of shiny objects to appease their electorates by claiming progress in climate actions where in reality have outsourced pollution to Asia, and the majority of that to China. Consumption driven economies, like in the U.S. and UK, have not learned how to consume less. In fact, they continue to consume more. What they have learned is to have the heavy lifting of production and waste processing done elsewhere. Just the required energy to manufacture all the gadgets the Western world appears not to be able to live without, is overwhelming and the demand keeps rising. The transportation from production to consumption waste. And after consumption, the waste is again transported back to the same region. But do we look at our own role in this? Are Western leaders addressing this during COP26 and all the other platforms they express their alleged concern about the climate? Not really.

A villager takes his cattle to walk past the Pingjing photovoltaic power station in Weining County, southwest China's Guizhou Province, March 13, 2018. /Xinhua A villager takes his cattle to walk past the Pingjing photovoltaic power station in Weining County, southwest China's Guizhou Province, March 13, 2018. /Xinhua