COVID-19 cases break records across Europe as winter takes hold
Commuters, some wearing face coverings to help prevent the spread of the coronavirus, walk out of an underground train station in London, UK, October 20, 2021. /CFP

Commuters, some wearing face coverings to help prevent the spread of the coronavirus, walk out of an underground train station in London, UK, October 20, 2021. /CFP

Coronavirus infections are hitting record levels in many countries across Europe as winter takes hold, prompting a call for action from the World Health Organization (WHO), which described the new wave as a "grave concern."

Soaring numbers of cases, especially in Eastern Europe, have prompted debate on whether to reintroduce curbs on movement before the Christmas holiday season and on how to persuade more people to get vaccinated.

"The current pace of transmission across the 53 countries of the European Region is of grave concern," regional WHO head Hans Kluge said, adding that the spread was exacerbated by the more transmissible Delta variant.

The virus spreads faster in the winter months when people gather indoors.

Kluge warned earlier that if Europe followed its current trajectory, there could be 500,000 COVID-related deaths in the region by February.

"We must change our tactics, from reacting to surges of COVID-19, to preventing them from happening in the first place," he said.

The region saw a 6-percent increase in new cases last week, with nearly 1.8 million new cases, compared with the week before. The number of deaths rose 12 percent in the same period.

Germany, Europe's biggest economy, reported 33,949 new infections, the highest daily increase since the start of the pandemic last year. Cases in Russia and Ukraine are soaring.

Austria's daily new coronavirus infections surged toward a record set a year ago, making a lockdown for the unvaccinated ever more likely.

COVID-19 prevalence in England rose to its highest level on record in October, Imperial College London said, led by a high numbers of cases in children and a surge in the southwest.

Slovakia reported 6,713 new cases, also a record, while daily new cases in Hungary more than doubled from last week to 6,268. Poland, Eastern Europe's biggest economy, reported 15,515 daily cases on Thursday, the highest figure since April. Croatia and Slovenia on Thursday both reported record daily infections.

Fresh curbs

The Hungarian government has urged people to take up vaccines and last week announced mandatory vaccinations at state institutions, also empowering private companies to make jabs mandatory for employees if they believe that is necessary.

Romania ¨C where hospitals cannot cope with a surge in COVID-19 patients ¨C the Czech Republic, Slovakia and Poland have all tightened rules on mask wearing and introduced measures to curb infections.

The Czech Republic has introduced a requirement for restaurant customers to show proof of vaccination or a test. It also has tough mask regulations and some children are again being tested in schools in areas where cases are higher.

In Poland, mask wearing is mandatory in enclosed public spaces while cinemas, theaters and hotels have a 75 percent capacity limit.