CPC plenum's historic resolution boosts China's socialist development
Editor's note: Christopher Helali is the international secretary of the Party of Communists USA and a PhD candidate in philosophy and China Government Scholar for Sino-U.S. Cultural Communication at Tongji University. The article reflects the author's opinions and not necessarily the views of CGTN.

On November 11, 2021, the sixth plenary session of the 19th Communist Party of China (CPC) Central Committee concluded its meeting with the adoption of multiple resolutions and the release of a communiqu¨¦. One of the resolutions passed called for the convening of the 20th National Congress of the CPC to be held in Beijing sometime in the second half of 2022.

The most important and historic resolution passed by the CPC plenum, entitled "Major Achievements and Historical Experience of the Party over the Past Century," assesses the past century of Chinese history. This historic resolution is another landmark resolution in the century-long history of the CPC.

In 1945, the "Resolution on Certain Questions in the History of Our Party" was adopted by the sixth Central Committee of the CPC. This resolution dealt with the New-Democratic Revolution, the opposition to imperialism, feudalism, and bureaucrat-capitalism, and working for the nation's independence and the people's liberation. It ultimately paved the way for the seventh National Congress of the CPC, which advanced the Chinese revolution and eventually led to victory in 1949.

In 1981, the Party adopted the "Resolution on Certain Questions in the History of Our Party since the Founding of the People's Republic of China" at the sixth plenary session of the 11th CPC Central Committee. This resolution, during the initial phase of reform and opening-up, provided assessments on the history of the CPC, the PRC, and the course of socialist revolution and development up to that point.

It upheld both Chairman Mao Zedong and Mao Zedong Thought as correct while simultaneously correcting the errors of the past. This resolution provided the Party with the necessary unity it needed to undertake the tremendous task of reform and opening-up, and a socialist modernization on a scale unparalleled in history.

Quoting Mao Zedong and Deng Xiaoping in his opening remarks, President Xi Jinping summarized the need for this landmark resolution in his speech to the CPC plenum of the 19th Central Committee. He explained the need to "revisit the Party's century-long journey in pursuit of happiness for the Chinese people and rejuvenation for the Chinese nation." President Xi went on to say that both "the Party and the people are inextricably connected and rise and fall together."