Decoupling between China and EU will benefit no one
Editor's note: Bobby Naderi is a London-based journalist, guest contributor in print, radio and television, and documentary filmmaker. The article reflects the author's opinions, and not necessarily the views of CGTN.

Forget about the frequent doses of propaganda and soothing assurances from clueless currents that make occasional forays into reporting that is critical of relations between China and the European Union. The powerful reality is this:

German Chancellor Angela Merkel has warned Berlin and the EU against severing all connections with China, arguing that whatever its cause, "it would be damaging for us." Merkel also said Germany and the EU should continue to cooperate with China and could learn from one another.

Talk of truth which can stand by itself. The nature of current trade relations between China and the EU does indeed make decoupling more unlikely. Despite the differences, the two sides neither have a distaste for globalism nor any intent to divide a tightly linked bilateral trade system. The two economies are far more integrated than ever before, and economic cooperation benefits both sides in a range of fields and sectors.

According to the latest data from Eurostat, China is the EU's largest trade partner despite the global economic downturn and pandemic. The thriving trade and economic links helped China overtake the U.S. last year to become the EU's largest trading partner. It is in their shared interests if this healthy bilateral trade continues the momentum as there is no alternative.

China relies on the EU's consumer market to support its export-led growth model, while the EU depends on China as its fastest-growing export market and investor through the Belt and Road Initiative, the biggest infrastructure development project on the planet. This concrete and risk-free geostrategic partnership has been reinforced by integrated networks of production, innovation and finance.

The focus for the two partners is also on shared values around climate change, free trade and economic globalization by means of funding and encouraging private investment worldwide. The translation is that China means business on free trade and emissions reduction. It already pledged to reach net-zero carbon emissions by 2050 as part of a deal with the United States struck at the COP26 Climate Summit in Glasgow. The crystal clear agreement has been hailed by the EU and other members of the international community.