Democracies in Macpherson's Mirror
A woman voter casts her ballot at a polling station to elect deputies to the Daxing District people's congress, in Ka'erbaili electoral district in Daxing District of Beijing, capital of China, November 5, 2021. /beijing.gov.cn A woman voter casts her ballot at a polling station to elect deputies to the Daxing District people's congress, in Ka'erbaili electoral district in Daxing District of Beijing, capital of China, November 5, 2021. /beijing.gov.cn

Editor's note: Radhika Desai is a professor of political studies at the University of Manitoba in Canada. The article reflects the author's opinions and not necessarily the views of CGTN. U.S. President Joe Biden campaigned on creating an "alliance of democracies" between the U.S. and its allies against countries, more or less arbitrarily, considered "authoritarian." The Communist Party of China (CPC) under Chinese President Xi Jinping, meanwhile, launched China's "whole process people's democracy" initiative to ensure in making China's democratic credentials better, more widely known and strengthen them further.

Is this, then, a "clash of the democracies?" The very question transports one back to another era, when critical thinkers took the non-Western world's claims to being democratic seriously. The insights of one such, Crawford B. Macpherson (1911-1987), Canada's best-known Marxist philosopher, reveals a profoundly and ironically, asymmetrical engagement instead. Whereas the whole process of people's democracy is about understanding and improving China's democratic processes, Biden's "alliance" is unconcerned about the health of U.S. democracy. It focuses exclusively on attacking countries designated as "authoritarian." Back in 2018, Biden spoke of the deficiencies of U.S. democracy when inaugurating Alliance for Democracies in Copenhagen. However, he was only indulging in a partisan attack on Donald Trump. Complaining about the U.S.' susceptibility to populism, he said little about the underlying causes - the power of corporate money and media in sustaining the neoliberal order that favors capital and property. The vast majority of U.S. citizens suffer stagnant wages, rising inequality, high unemployment, racism, distrust and hopelessness due to this order. One does not have to admire Trump to note that he won in 2016 by exploiting the system's proliferating weaknesses, but Biden won in 2020 by deepening them. In 2016 (for the first time in decades) the winner spent much less than either his predecessor or rival. Biden restored the decaying system's status quo, winning by spending vastly more than Trump in 2016 or 2020. Biden's alliance only tries to weaponize an increasingly empty concept of democracy against rivals like China, and countries refusing subjection to the U.S. and Western corporations. The alliance cooks up charges of human rights violations, "crimes against humanity" and genocide against China and other targets, ignoring worse crimes committed by its members.

U.S. Senator Elizabeth Warren (center right) and Michelle Wu, Democratic mayoral candidate for Boston (center left), gather with attendees during a canvas kickoff event in Boston, Massachusetts, U.S., October 30, 2021. /Getty U.S. Senator Elizabeth Warren (center right) and Michelle Wu, Democratic mayoral candidate for Boston (center left), gather with attendees during a canvas kickoff event in Boston, Massachusetts, U.S., October 30, 2021. /Getty