Developed world is the weak link in the fight against climate change
Editor's note: CGTN's First Voice provides instant commentary on breaking stories. The daily column clarifies emerging issues and better defines the news agenda, offering a Chinese perspective on the latest global events.

As COP26 kicks off in Glasgow, questions and debates echo around the world on what nations can collectively do in order to offset the effects of manmade climate change. The world knows there is a problem, and the world knows that it needs to act. However, some things are easier said than done.

Not every country's rhetoric on climate change has been followed up with action, especially when making the uncomfortable transition away from a carbon and fossil fuel dependent world comes with riveting costs and vested interests that make concrete steps difficult. Additionally, these nations, as a result of these difficulties, have become adept at shifting their lack of commitments and bulk of obligations onto others, fragmenting and politicizing what is a global problem.

British Prime Minister Boris Johnson has said that the COP26 UN Conference on Climate Change will be a "moment of truth." Yet, there is widespread skepticism that the United Kingdom will meet its climate change commitments. And it is just one of several examples in the developed world. The UK has pledged to be completely reliant on renewable sources of energy by 2035 and to achieve net-zero emissions by 2050. But according to a report by the BBC, the UK government's current policies will fall dramatically short of this target, capable of reducing a mere 20 percent by the targeted time.

Australia under Scott Morrison is another notorious climate offender whose rhetoric is met with little substance. As one of the world's largest emitters of carbon, Australia releases an estimated 17 metric tonnes per capita per year, three times the global average. His government refuses to set a legally binding target or downscale Australia's coal exports. Instead, it has offered a half-hearted commitment to reduce carbon emissions by 26 percent from 2005 levels by 2030, a position which Susan Harris Rimmer of Griffith University described as "pathetic."

As for the United States, the talk is even louder and actions scarcer. U.S. President Joe Biden has been talking about leading the world in the fight against climate change, and yet he can't get his own house in order. Other than the COVID-19 relief package, Biden hasn't passed a single major legislation, including his signature infrastructure bill that was supposed to have a major climate component in it. How is he supposed to lead the world if he can't even convince his own people to support him?