Develop whole-process people's democracy
The closing meeting of the 4th session of the 13th NPC is held at the Great Hall of the People in Beijing, capital of China, March 11, 2021. /Xinhua

The closing meeting of the 4th session of the 13th NPC is held at the Great Hall of the People in Beijing, capital of China, March 11, 2021. /Xinhua

Editor's note: Zhang Shuhua is the director of the Institute of Political Science and director of the Center of Socialist Democracy Research at the Chinese Academy of Social Sciences. The article reflects the author's opinions and not necessarily the views of CGTN.

China's socialist democracy is a whole-process people's democracy. Since the phrase whole-process people's democracy is a bit long, we made a new word for it: "peoplecracy." Peoplecracy puts people first, and the people are our Party's foundation and greatest strength in governance. It is in this sense that people's support is of paramount importance.

"People first" is rooted in Chinese history and reflects a deep concern for humanity. The founding mission of the Communist Party of China (CPC) is to pursue happiness for the people, and putting people at the center is a guiding principle of the CPC and a core value of China's socialist democracy.

The path of China's peoplecracy is the logical outcome of the evolution of history, theory and practice as the Chinese people have long been engaged in struggles since the advent of modern times. It is a requisite for maintaining the very nature of the Party and fulfilling its fundamental purpose.

The CPC is from the people, for the people, and successful because of the people. That is why we say the Party works for the people's interests and has no interests of its own. All it does is to realize, safeguard and develop the fundamental interests of the people.

The people are the creators of history and the true heroes. Even though there are officials and leaders, they are always ordinary members of the working people and maintain close ties with the people. In correspondence, in people's minds, democracy includes improved well-being, developed civil rights, protected people's rule and following the will of the people.

The CPC and the people are integrated with each other. This is another reason we say China's socialist democracy ¨C peoplecracy ¨C is the broadest, most genuine and most effective democracy to safeguard the people's fundamental interests. The very purpose of developing socialist democracy is to give full expression to the will of the people, protect their rights and interests, spark their creativity and provide systemic and institutional guarantees to ensure the people's position as masters of the country.