Dinosaur speaks at UN, urging people not to 'choose extinction'
"At least we had an asteroid," says the dinosaur, referring to the popular theory explaining the dinosaur's extinction 70 million years ago. "What's your excuse?"

Those are words from the green marble rostrum in the United Nations General Assembly Hall where world leaders make their voices heard across the globe.

This time the speaker is a dinosaur.

The United Nations Development Program (UNDP) on Wednesday released a 150-second digitally generated film to launch its new "Don't Choose Extinction" campaign against fossil fuel subsidies.

"I know a thing or two about extinction and let me tell you ¨C and you'd kind of think this would be obvious: Going extinct is a bad thing!" the dinosaur tells the audience in awe. "And driving yourselves extinct in 70 million years? That's the most ridiculous thing I've ever heard."

The dinosaur goes on to highlight how ridiculous fossil fuel subsidies are.

"You're headed for a climate disaster. And yet every year governments spend hundreds of billions of public funds on fossil fuel subsidies. Imagine if we had spent hundreds of billions per year subsidizing giant meteors! That's what you're doing right now!" says the dinosaur.

The dinosaur's message to humans: "Don't choose extinction, save your species before it's too late. It's time for you humans to stop making excuses and start making changes."

UNDP research released as part of the campaign shows that the world spends $423 billion annually to subsidize fossil fuel consumption.

This amount could cover the cost of COVID-19 vaccination for every person in the world, or pay for three times the annual amount needed to eradicate global extreme poverty.

UNDP Administrator Achim Steiner, who launched the campaign, said fossil fuel subsidies are a regressive policy measure because they actually benefit the wealthier but are often deployed in the name of the poorer.

"It is a myth that we have to tackle head-on, because it has always been used as an argument as why fossil fuel subsidies should be maintained," he told reporters.

This is why fossil fuel subsidies are not just about energy pricing, fossil fuel markets, carbon emissions. They are actually about sustainable development, inclusive development, and green recovery. Reform is not only necessary but also ¨C when done correctly ¨C actually supports poverty eradication, creates jobs and livelihoods and protects the planet, he said.