Djokovic reaches ATP Finals semis, Federer not returning till mid-2022
Serbia's Novak Djokovic returns a shot to Russia's Andrey Rublev during the ATP Finals in Turin, Italy, November 17, 2021. /CFP Serbia's Novak Djokovic returns a shot to Russia's Andrey Rublev during the ATP Finals in Turin, Italy, November 17, 2021. /CFP

Novak Djokovic secured a semifinal place at the ATP Finals with a 6-3 6-2 victory over Russian Andrey Rublev on Wednesday, his 50th match win of the year, while Stefanos Tsitsipas withdrew from the tournament due to an elbow injury.



The world No.1, bidding to equal Roger Federer's record of six titles at the season-ending event wrapped up top spot in the Green Group thanks to successive straight-sets victories.



"I served well (and) that helped tremendously," Djokovic said.



"I wanted to put him out of his comfort zone, taking away the time and mix up the pace. It was a great performance overall."

Andrey Rublev of Russia returns a shot to Novak Djokovic of Serbia during the ATP Finals in Turin, Italy, November 17, 2021. /CFP Andrey Rublev of Russia returns a shot to Novak Djokovic of Serbia during the ATP Finals in Turin, Italy, November 17, 2021. /CFP

The 34-year-old Djokovic is looking to cap off a remarkable year which saw him only just miss out on completing a calendar Grand Slam with defeat by Daniil Medvedev in the U.S. Open final.



A rematch with second-ranked Medvedev in the final in Italy is still a possibility, with the Russian reigning champion sitting top of the Red Group.



Djokovic is bidding for back-to-back titles after returning to action earlier this month with success in the Paris Masters, beating Medvedev in the final.



The Serb has not won the ATP Finals since 2015, losing finals in 2016 and 2018 to Andy Murray and Alexander Zverev respectively, while also falling in an epic last-four clash with Dominic Thiem last year.

Norway's Casper Ruud watches the ball during his first during his game against Britain's Cameron Norrie at the ATP Finals in Turin, Italy, November 17, 2021. /CFP Norway's Casper Ruud watches the ball during his first during his game against Britain's Cameron Norrie at the ATP Finals in Turin, Italy, November 17, 2021. /CFP

Norway's Casper Ruud beat ATP Finals debutant Briton Cameron Norrie 1-6 6-3 6-4. Norrie replaced Greek star Stefanos Tsitsipas who pulled out with an elbow injury earlier.



Italian youngster Jannik Sinner is in a similar position in the other group, after replacing the injured Matteo Berrettini and then seeing off Hubert Hurkacz (6-2, 6-2) on Tuesday.

Roger Federer poses with the Laver Cup Trophy after taking part in a live TV interview in Boston, U.S., September 24, 2021. /CFP Roger Federer poses with the Laver Cup Trophy after taking part in a live TV interview in Boston, U.S., September 24, 2021. /CFP