Djokovic beats Medvedev for 37th Masters title in Paris
Novak Djokovic celebrates a point in the final at Paris Masters in Paris, France, November 7, 2021. /CFP Novak Djokovic celebrates a point in the final at Paris Masters in Paris, France, November 7, 2021. /CFP

World number one Novak Djokovic won a sixth Paris title and record 37th Masters crown on Sunday, beating 2020 champion Daniil Medvedev 4-6, 6-3, 6-3 in the final. The 34-year-old Serbian gained a measure of revenge over his Russian opponent who had dashed his dreams of a Grand Slam sweep in the U.S. Open final in September. The Masters title was Djokovic's second record after he was confirmed as season-ending world number one for a seventh time. The 20-time Grand Slam winner said he approached the final in a relaxed frame of mind after wrapping up the world number one landmark.

Novak Djokovic (L) celebrates with his children Stefan and Tara after winning the Paris Masters in Paris, France, November 7, 2021. /CFP Novak Djokovic (L) celebrates with his children Stefan and Tara after winning the Paris Masters in Paris, France, November 7, 2021. /CFP

Djokovic did not seem too concerned when he went a set down against a man he considers "the complete player" and expects to be world number one in the future. "It was a very close match decided by small margins based on a few points here and there," he said. "I was very pleased how I held my nerves at the end and took the match point. I wanted to finish the end of season with a trophy and did not want to lock myself mentally and physically in stressful mode. I knew things would come together and I would work my way into the match." Djokovic said he had felt no hangover from the U.S. Open defeat. "I mean, I already closed that chapter," he said. "I am not regretting it or spending days suffering because I did not take the calendar slam this year." "I have moved on from that and focused on Masters event and came here and achieved what I wanted to do."

Daniil Medvedev (L) and Novak Djokovic talk during the award ceremony of Paris Masters in Paris, France, November 7, 2021. /CFP Daniil Medvedev (L) and Novak Djokovic talk during the award ceremony of Paris Masters in Paris, France, November 7, 2021. /CFP

Medvedev said Djokovic ¨C who he calls his "friend" ¨C was stronger on the crucial points. "I don't like losing, so I cannot say I am happy, I don't even like losing at Play Station!" said Medvedev at his press conference. "But I gave everything and maybe I could have done a winner here or there or served one or two more aces," he added. "When you lose a match, you always have the feelings that you can do a bit better. Trouble was Novak won the crucial points and apart from the first set I did not. However, I take consolation in having given everything against the best player in the world of all time. It was a good battle."

Opponents that Djokovic met at Paris Masters

Daniil Medvedev hits a shot in the final with Novak Djokovic at Paris Masters in Paris, France, November 7, 2021. /CFP Daniil Medvedev hits a shot in the final with Novak Djokovic at Paris Masters in Paris, France, November 7, 2021. /CFP Hubert Hurkacz of Poland in action as Djokovic defeated Hurkacz 3-6, 6-0, 7-6 (5) in their semifinal, November 6, 2021. /CFP Hubert Hurkacz of Poland in action as Djokovic defeated Hurkacz 3-6, 6-0, 7-6 (5) in their semifinal, November 6, 2021. /CFP American player Taylor Fritz returns a shot as Djokovic defeated Fritz 6-4, 6-3 in their quarterfinal, November 5, 2021. / CFP American player Taylor Fritz returns a shot as Djokovic defeated Fritz 6-4, 6-3 in their quarterfinal, November 5, 2021. / CFP Marton Fucsovics of Hungary in action as Djokovic clinched a 6-2, 4-6, 6-3 victory in the singles opener, November 2, 2021. /CFP Marton Fucsovics of Hungary in action as Djokovic clinched a 6-2, 4-6, 6-3 victory in the singles opener, November 2, 2021. /CFP Djokovic (R) and compatriot Filip Krajinovic celebrate as they make a winning start in the doubles opener on November 1. They were later stunned by Australian-Slovakian pair John Peers and Filip Polasek in the second round. /CFP Djokovic (R) and compatriot Filip Krajinovic celebrate as they make a winning start in the doubles opener on November 1. They were later stunned by Australian-Slovakian pair John Peers and Filip Polasek in the second round. /CFP