DPP's games to challenge one-China principle will backfire
Editor's note: CGTN's First Voice provides instant commentary on breaking stories. The daily column clarifies emerging issues and better defines the news agenda, offering a Chinese perspective on the latest global events.

The new administration of Lithuania has decided to challenge the one-China principle by allowing the separatist Democratic Progressive Party (DPP) to open a so-called "Taiwanese Representative Office" in Vilnius. Lithuania, of course, has little interest in China's domestic affairs.

The reason it's provoking China has to do with Lithuania's own historical ghosts, as well as its current need to cultivate powerful friends by doing their dirty diplomatic work.

In 2020, a new center-right coalition took power in Lithuania. Its main partner, the Homeland Union part, was historically formed to challenge the Communist Party of Lithuania after the breakup of the USSR and has defined itself by strongly supporting nationalism.

Today's Homeland Union leaders are scoring domestic political points by drawing an emotionally powerful but factually incorrect parallel between Lithuania's decision to leave the former USSR and the separatist movement in the Taiwan region.

Taiwan has been an inseparable part of China's territory. It has never been a country. If Homeland Union leaders insist on drawing a parallel, the proper comparison should be between Lithuania's independence from the former USSR and Taiwan's recovery from Japanese occupation, with the latter being irrefutable evidence that the island is an inalienable part of China.

But unfortunately, Homeland Union's faulty and misleading parallel has emotionally resonated with the public in Lithuania and proved to be a winning political maneuver.

The wave of patriotism unleashed by this move has helped obscure the Homeland Union's role as a key backer of the discredited austerity measures put in place after the global financial crisis.

This leads to the other main reason Lithuania is challenging the one-China principle. Its government seeks closer economic and military ties with the West. Since Lithuania and China have little trade, Vilnius can be on the vanguard of testing China's red lines without paying too high a cost.

China has already withdrawn its ambassador from Lithuania, and pushed Lithuania's ambassador to leave China.