EDG overcomes past to make history with LoL Worlds 2021 victory
Edward Gaming (EDG) from League of Legends Pro League (LPL) celebrates after defeating DWG KIA (DK) from League of Legends Champions Korea (LCK) to win the 2021 League of Legends World Championship Final in Reykjav¨ªk, Iceland, November 6, 2021. /CFP Edward Gaming (EDG) from League of Legends Pro League (LPL) celebrates after defeating DWG KIA (DK) from League of Legends Champions Korea (LCK) to win the 2021 League of Legends World Championship Final in Reykjav¨ªk, Iceland, November 6, 2021. /CFP

When Edward Gaming (EDG) from the League of Legends Pro League (LPL) defeated DWG KIA (DK) from League of Legends Champions Korea (LCK) in the 2021 League of Legends World Championship Final in Reykjav¨ªk, Iceland on Saturday, they also created the following histories: They broke the team's awkward record of never going further than the quarterfinals at the World Championship. They became the first LPL team to beat an LCK team in the World Championship Final. They became the first grand slam LPL team to win the domestic league title, the Mid-Season Invitational championship and the World Championship title.

Lee Ye-chan (Game ID: Scout), mid laner of EDG, poses with his 2021 League of Legends World Championship Final MVP trophy after victory in Reykjav¨ªk, November 6, 2021. /CFP Lee Ye-chan (Game ID: Scout), mid laner of EDG, poses with his 2021 League of Legends World Championship Final MVP trophy after victory in Reykjav¨ªk, November 6, 2021. /CFP

EDG's mid laner Lee Ye-chan (Game ID: Scout) was named the Final MVP after his character Zoe, the Aspect of Twilight, made the biggest contribution to acquiring the initiative for the team in the last two bouts. And let's not forget that Scout did all this while facing Heo So (Game ID: ShowMaker), who is probably the best LOL player in the world. Scout was a bit shocked when he learnt that he was the Final MVP. "I'm really surprised. I really feel through these five games I didn't perform that well. Also, before the fifth game, I really felt like maybe the finals MVP should be given to our jungle player, Jiejie, because I really feel Jiejie played so well this whole set," he said after the Final.

Zhao Lijie (Game ID: Jiejie), jungler of EDG, celebrates after defeating DK 3-2 in the 2021 League of Legends World Championship Final in Reykjav¨ªk, November 6, 2021. /CFP Zhao Lijie (Game ID: Jiejie), jungler of EDG, celebrates after defeating DK 3-2 in the 2021 League of Legends World Championship Final in Reykjav¨ªk, November 6, 2021. /CFP

Scout actually made a good point because Zhao Lijie (Game ID: Jiejie) managed to pin down Kim Geon-bu (Game ID: Canyon) in every of the three games EDG won. Unlike the DK jungler, Jiejie does not have a deep pool of characters he can master, but he knows what his role is and has always been able to do the right thing at the right time. For example, EDG survived multiple close battles in the last bout only thanks to the Oceanic Will they had after Jiejie secured the Ocean Drake for the team. When DK was targeting the Elder Dragon as their last but best turn-around opportunity, Jiejie stood out again and made sure that EDG pocketed the Aspect of the Dragon.

Park Do-hyeon (Game ID: Viper), bot laner of EDG competes in the 2021 League of Legends World Championship Final against DK in Reykjav¨ªk, November 6, 2021. /CFP Park Do-hyeon (Game ID: Viper), bot laner of EDG competes in the 2021 League of Legends World Championship Final against DK in Reykjav¨ªk, November 6, 2021. /CFP

The Final was not perfect for EDG or there wouldn't have been five bouts. In fact, the team was already on the edge of the cliff after losing the second and third game. However, they didn't panic at all because the team knew they could always trust their bot laner Park Do-hyeon (Game ID: Viper) whatever happened. Viper rarely made mistakes whether it was Khada Jhin, the Virtuoso, Lucian the Purifier or Aphelios, the Weapon of the Faithful he was using. He was the reason why EDG could make progress after engaging. When chances to reap appeared, Viper never hesitated to take them.

Tian Ye (Game ID: Meiko), support of EDG, looks on in the 2021 League of Legends World Championship Final against DK in Reykjav¨ªk, November 6, 2021. /CFP Tian Ye (Game ID: Meiko), support of EDG, looks on in the 2021 League of Legends World Championship Final against DK in Reykjav¨ªk, November 6, 2021. /CFP

Of course the team's victory could have never happened without the key performance of support Tian Ye (Game ID: Meiko) and top laner Li Xuanjun (Game ID: Flandre). Unlike the other four positions, Meiko rarely had any chance to make any highlights but he often had to face the greatest pressure without quality gear, because that's the support's role and job. Meiko overcame all of these difficulties and did a fantastic job of initiating. His use of Zilean, the Chronokeeper facing DK's pair of Yasuo, the Unforgiven and Xin Zhao, the Seneschal of Demacia in the first game was integral to EDG's win. In the last game, Meiko had no fear at all making hard engage with the explosive combination of Trundle, the Troll King and Syndra, the the Dark Sovereign. Meiko's resilience was why Flandre was able to make the last key punch.

Li Xuanjun (Game ID: Flandre), top laner of EDG, competes in the 2021 League of Legends World Championship Final against DK in Reykjav¨ªk, November 6, 2021. /CFP Li Xuanjun (Game ID: Flandre), top laner of EDG, competes in the 2021 League of Legends World Championship Final against DK in Reykjav¨ªk, November 6, 2021. /CFP

Flandre's underperformance in the third bout almost cost EDG the Final but he accomplished salvation in the last two bouts. First, he used Graves, the Outlaw to dominate the opponents in Game 4 and then joined the battle when it mattered the most using Kennen, the Heart of the Tempest, ruining the last hope of DK to reverse the situation. When EDG knocked out LPL's Royal Never Give Up (RNG) in the quarterfinals, some refused to cheer them. Instead, they said EDG cost LPL's chance of winning the World Championship. Such criticism did not come out of nowhere because of EDG's previous records in the event: reaching the quarterfinals four times and Round of 16 once. One might feel even more desperate after looking at the other three teams in the semifinals. T1, Gen.G and DK from LCK won three, two and one titles respectively at the World Championship.

Edward Gaming (EDG) from League of Legends Pro League (LPL) celebrates after defeating DWG KIA (DK) from League of Legends Champions Korea (LCK) to win the 2021 League of Legends World Championship Final in Reykjav¨ªk, November 6, 2021. /CFP Edward Gaming (EDG) from League of Legends Pro League (LPL) celebrates after defeating DWG KIA (DK) from League of Legends Champions Korea (LCK) to win the 2021 League of Legends World Championship Final in Reykjav¨ªk, November 6, 2021. /CFP