Embracing the green spirit
Editor's note: Wang Huiyao is the president of the Center for China and Globalization (CCG). The article reflects the author's opinions and not necessarily the views of CGTN.

Two major international events this week have underscored both the urgency for a rapid transition to clean technologies and the lucrative opportunities this shift will bring to multinational corporations (MNC) that can innovate and collaborate with international partners. They are the fourth China International Import Export (CIIE), which just wrapped up in Shanghai, and the 26th United Nations Climate Change Conference of the Parties (COP26), which is underway in Glasgow.

As the moderator of a parallel session at the fourth Hongqiao International Economic Forum affiliated with the CIIE, I took part in a discussion on the chances and challenges brought by climate change and green development with policymakers, representatives of international organizations, business leaders and scholars in the related fields.

Climate change and green development have become topics of great concern among the international community. A raft of major economies has made commitments on carbon emissions peaking and carbon neutrality in rapid succession.

In September of last year, China announced "dual goals" to peak carbon dioxide emissions by 2030 and achieve carbon neutrality by 2060. In late October of this year, a few days ahead of COP26, the government launched a guideline and action plan to achieve the dual goals.

According to these roadmaps, by 2025, the share of non-fossil fuels in total energy consumption in China will reach around 20 percent. Meanwhile, energy consumption and carbon dioxide emissions per unit of GDP will drop by 13.5 percent and 18 percent, respectively, compared with 2020 levels. These improvements will lay a solid foundation for the road to carbon peak and neutrality.

By 2030, the share of non-fossil energy consumption will reach around 25 percent. Carbon dioxide emissions per unit of gross domestic product (GDP) will have dropped by more than 65 percent compared with the 2005 level, leading to a peaking of carbon dioxide emissions before 2030.

By 2060, the share of non-fossil energy consumption in the national energy mix will be over 80 percent. By this time, China should have achieved carbon neutrality, having fully established a green, low-carbon and circular economy and a clean, low-carbon, safe and efficient energy system.

With action galvanized by national carbon goals, the development of clean energy technologies has been accelerating. Based on a report by Oxford University, Bloomberg Opinion made a conservative estimate that a rapid clean-energy transition would save the world $26 trillion in energy costs compared with continuing today's energy system while contributing toward meeting the Paris targets.