Escaping Bibi's shadow
Israeli Prime Minister Naftali Bennett speaks during the memorial ceremony for the fallen soldiers of the 1973 Yom Kippur War, at the Hall of Remembrance on Mount Herzl in Jerusalem, September 19, 2021. /CFP

Israeli Prime Minister Naftali Bennett speaks during the memorial ceremony for the fallen soldiers of the 1973 Yom Kippur War, at the Hall of Remembrance on Mount Herzl in Jerusalem, September 19, 2021. /CFP

Editor's note: Shalom Lipner, a nonresident senior fellow for Middle East Programs at the Atlantic Council, served seven consecutive Israeli premiers over a quarter-century at the Prime Minister's Office in Jerusalem. The article reflects the author's opinions and not necessarily the views of CGTN.

Israeli Prime Minister Naftali Bennett returned from this month's United Nations Climate Change Conference (COP26) feeling buoyant. Hobnobbing with world leaders in Scotland lent credibility to his projected image as a worthy replacement to Binyamin Netanyahu, his polarizing and larger-than-life predecessor who reigned supreme over Israel for more than 12 years. But Bennett's momentum ÿ and his government ÿ could be short-lived unless he is able to exercise prudent leadership in the months ahead.

In November, Israel's Knesset (parliament) passed new budget frameworks for 2021 and 2022 ÿ a huge achievement for Bennett, given that the Knesset had not ratified a fiscal plan since March 2018. This triumph is a double-edged sword, however, because it might easily unleash political forces to precipitate his government's early demise.

The Israeli cabinet is literally a team of rivals, comprising ministers affiliated with the country's ideological right, center and left. Their commitment to working together was forged in the crucible of their shared antipathy toward Netanyahu. A similar aversion to Netanyahu's comportment and policies has been prevalent in certain foreign capitals, where leaders bristle at the prospect of his possible return to power. This has given Bennett additional ballast and mitigated what would likely have been more vocal international criticism of Israel had Netanyahu remained in charge. In fact, Netanyahu is the proverbial superglue that has secured his successor tightly in place thus far.

That adhesive might be dissolving. One significant consequence of the approval of the 2021 budget is the virtual neutralization of the opposition, which requires 61 of the Knesset's 120 members to coalesce around the candidacy of an alternative premier ÿ presumably Netanyahu ÿ to unseat the current government. The haywire results of Israel's four recent, rapid-fire parliamentary elections, during which Netanyahu repeatedly failed to win the backing of 61 legislators, offer convincing proof of that scenario's implausibility. He now acknowledges dejectedly that it could take another three and a half years to topple Bennett's cohort.

Netanyahu's own spiral toward political irrelevance is further hindering his attempts to send Bennett packing prematurely. Although Likud remains the largest caucus in parliament, its declared boycott of Knesset committees has all but disintegrated, leaving the core of Netanyahu's putative government divided and in disarray. Increasingly preoccupied with court dates relating to corruption charges from his tenure as premier, Netanyahu also finds himself busy trying to assuage his frustrated allies, who had become accustomed to the trappings of power.

The resulting vacuum is providing Bennett and his ministers with the dubious luxury of breathing room to promote their respective partisan agendas as never before. Open conflict among the coalition's erstwhile antagonists over the government's course could ultimately render their fragile alliance untenable. Suddenly, and paradoxically, the fledgling government is vulnerable to implosion.