EU opens door to state aid to boost semiconductor production
A global shortage of semiconductors is expected to drag on into 2022. /Reuters A global shortage of semiconductors is expected to drag on into 2022. /Reuters

The European Union is exploring the possibility of using state aid to boost semiconductor production, as a global shortage of the crucial microchips drags on. "The Commission will consider approving support to fill possible funding gaps in the semiconductor ecosystem, in particular for European, first-of-a-kind facilities," said Margrethe Vestager, the European Commissioner for Competition on Thursday. State aid is generally prohibited in the EU, unless there's a pressing economic need for it. READ MORE Anti-Asian hate speech 'surged online' Zero Waste Challenge: Household rubbish China urges EU to ratify trade deal



Semiconductors are used in everything from washing machines to cars. However, since the start of the COVID-19 pandemic, companies have been struggling to get hold of enough chips. European car manufacturers such as Daimler and Audi have even been forced to cut their output this year.

European Commissioner for Competition Margrethe Vestager speaking in Brussels on Thursday. /Reuters European Commissioner for Competition Margrethe Vestager speaking in Brussels on Thursday. /Reuters

Some EU member states are concerned that state aid in the semiconductor sector could give larger nations such as Germany and France an unfair advantage and undermine Europe's free market. "There are strong safeguards to make sure that such aid is necessary, appropriate, proportionate and, of course, to make sure that undue competition distortion is limited," said Vestager on Thursday. As the worldwide shortage lingers, boosting semiconductor production in the single market has become a top priority for the EU. Asia currently dominates the sector, with many of the world's largest producers based in Taiwan, the Republic of Korea and China.

Car manufacturers in Europe have had to cut production this year due to the chip shortage. /AFP Car manufacturers in Europe have had to cut production this year due to the chip shortage. /AFP