Fans return for classic Cairo football rivalry as Al Ahly wins
FILE PIC: For the first time in years fans returned to Cairo's International Stadium on Friday for a classic local football clash between two of Africa's greatest rivals, Al Ahly and Zamalek. /AFP

FILE PIC: For the first time in years fans returned to Cairo's International Stadium on Friday for a classic local football clash between two of Africa's greatest rivals, Al Ahly and Zamalek. /AFP

For the first time in years fans returned to Cairo's International Stadium on Friday for a classic local football clash between two of Africa's greatest rivals, Al Ahly and Zamalek.

Each Cairo-based side had the right to only 1,000 fans in a stadium with more than 70,000 capacity but their presence meant a return to partial normality after a long silence initially because of fan violence, and then the coronavirus pandemic.

The two Egyptian Premier League clubs have long dominated the local scene and have also consistently figured prominently in continental competitions.

In 2020 they battled behind closed doors, also at International Stadium, in the first ever CAF Champions League final between opponents from the same country.

Al Ahly won that match 2-1 and the red shirts again defeated Zamalek 5-3 Friday night.

"A big thank you to the public who supported us and were by our side," Al Ahly defender Akram Tawfik said at a post-match news conference.

For midfielder Amr El Solia, "the return of the public gave us an enormous boost for a three-point match against a ferocious opponent like Zamalek."

Team supporters arrived five hours before kick-off, bearing flags in team colours -- white for Zamalek.

"There's a young generation that has never seen Al Ahly and Zamalek compete in front of their supporters," one fan, Ahmed, tweeted to hail his side's victory.

"Tonight they saw that Al Ahly fans were there."

When the teams clash on the pitch, authorities always fear unrest between their supporters in the Arab world's most populous city.

Security forces were stationed inside and around the stadium, where only minor incidents were reported in contrast to years past.

(With input from agencies)