Fighting for the right to repair old electronic appliances
03:27

What do you do with electronic devices and appliances that no longer work? Do you get them fixed or throw them out and buy new ones? Repairing old items can be costly, time consuming or even impossible, while throwing them out can damage the environment. Some manufacturers make replaceable parts scarce or don't release repair information, says Chlo¨¦ Mikolajczak, a campaigner for the European Right to Repair movement, which is advocating for legislation that would make it easier to repair broken items. "Manufacturers have put up so many barriers and so many challenges to repair old products," she tells CGTN. "That means for a lot of consumers, they either can't repair it or for a very expensive price (making) buying something new all the more interesting." READ MORE Triceratops skeleton sells for $7.7m The mystery space noise puzzling scientists CO2 'dangerously past' agreed levels says UN However, while buying new might feel exciting, the environmental impact is noticeable. The majority of the damage done to our atmosphere by small electronics occurs during the energy-intense manufacturing phase. It also consumes new resources and raw materials. Furthermore, according to the United Nations, we generate around 50 million tons of electronic waste or e-waste every year and less than 20 percent of that is recycled, meaning that old microwave oven is likely to sit in a landfill for decades.

E-waste is often toxic. /CGTN E-waste is often toxic. /CGTN

Repair Cafes This drive to repair old items has manifested in the growth of community "repair cafes" all across Europe. In Germany alone, there are more than a thousand of these events, at which capable volunteers offer their time to try and fix their community's broken gadgets. Anything from old sewing machines, lamps and TVs are given a chance at a second life, says Brigitte Fingerle-Trischler, who is the organizer of a repair cafe in Munich. "The range is actually quite wide," she says. "Our repairers are very happy to do electrical things, e.g., irons and vacuum cleaners. It is very important to us that this possibility exists at all, that one thinks they should try to repair it before throwing it away." One of those repairers is Hans Gall, a radio frequency engineer who has been tinkering with things since he was a child and has managed to repair Joseph's old power drill in a matter of minutes ¨C "A simple fix," he says, "that will give the drill 10 years or more of good service."

On a Saturday in Munich, community members gather to repair their items. /CGTN Europe On a Saturday in Munich, community members gather to repair their items. /CGTN Europe