For Hong Kong and Macao, the CIIE is a window of opportunity
Editor's note: Timothy Kerswell is a research fellow at the Chinese University of Hong Kong (Shenzhen). He lived in Macao for seven years, working as an assistant professor at the University of Macao. The article reflects the author's opinions and not necessarily the views of CGTN.

For China's special administrative regions, Hong Kong and Macao, the China International Import Expo (CIIE) demonstrates the Chinese mainland's opportunities for future recovery. Often there has been discussion about a push toward both economic diversification and restructuring toward greater integration with the Chinese mainland in both economies. Often there has been a lukewarm response to these suggestions due to the political courage required to endure the pain associated with economic restructuring. In the case of Hong Kong, the potential political instability would often stall such plans.

The last two years changed all of that, as COVID-19 was a wake-up call. I lived in both Hong Kong and Macao during the pandemic. I'd often sit and work in a cafe in one of Macao's many enormous casinos, and will never forget the feeling of being one of the only visitors in buildings designed to hold thousands of people. It was a cavernous space and the staff vastly outnumbered me. Having visited Hong Kong a lot since 2013, it was sad to see several fairly well-established businesses close due to the instability of 2019 and then the pandemic as well. These difficult years were a timely reminder of the vulnerability of industries that depend on tourism, and overreliance on any one sector.

Hong Kong and Macao are now impatient for economic recovery. In this impatience, it would be tempting to simply rely on a policy strategy centered around a return to the past but this would be a grave error. The difference now is that pain has been endured involuntarily as the result of very unfortunate circumstances. Accordingly, the policy calculus should change. To do anything other than planning for diversification and greater integration into the Chinese market would represent lunacy for both Hong Kong and Macao.

Macao has a chance to provide a bridge between the Portuguese-speaking world and the burgeoning Chinese market. Through cooperation under Forum Macao, which resulted from an initiative by the central government initiative, numerous companies from Portuguese-speaking countries like Angola, Brazil, Cabe Verde, Guinea-Bissau, Mozambique, Portugal and East Timor are developing links with the Chinese market. These synergies provide significant opportunities across the Lusophone world, such as through the Pilot Program of Qualified Domestic Limited Partners Overseas Investment, which despite its awkward name, is bringing Chinese investment to many Lusophone countries via Macao.

Taking part in the CIIE since 2018, the delegation from Macao continued bringing in local food, beverage and other agricultural products, as well as providing professional accounting and translation services, promoting the region's role in international cooperation. More than 40 companies in the city attended the expo in 2020, with a booth covering an area of 660 square meters, which saw an increase of about 200 square meters from the first CIIE.