German bobsleigh team speaks highly of venues for Beijing 2022
An aerial view of the National Sliding Center in Yanqing District, Beijing for the 2022 Winter Olympic and Paralympic Games. /CFP An aerial view of the National Sliding Center in Yanqing District, Beijing for the 2022 Winter Olympic and Paralympic Games. /CFP

Athletes and coaches of German bobsleigh and skeleton team spoke highly of the National Sliding Centre in Yanqing, one of the three competition zones of the 2022 Winter Olympic Games, after finishing training sessions and attending test events there. "The National Sliding Centre is a remarkable building with impressive design constructed on natural mountains," said German bobsleigh coach Rene Spies in an interview with Xinhua News Agency. "The Runs are very challenging. One error can cost you a lot of time in the competition. I'm very satisfied with the training sessions in the past three weeks." "These are incredible and special tracks," said Jacqueline Loelling, who won the women's skeleton silver medal at the Winter Olympics in PyeongChang in 2018. "The views and constructions motivate you to compete. We spent three very pleasant weeks there." The German teams returned home on Wednesday. Spies admitted that a lot of new paperwork has been added to international events because of COVID-19, but the Chinese organizers did a great hosting job. "We could carry out our training plan and were served quality diets. None of all 46 participants had any complaint during the three weeks," Spies told Xinhua.

Kim Kalicki and Anabel Galander of Germany compete in the two-woman bobsleigh test event for the 2022 Winter Olympics at the National Sliding Centre, October 26, 2021. /CFP Kim Kalicki and Anabel Galander of Germany compete in the two-woman bobsleigh test event for the 2022 Winter Olympics at the National Sliding Centre, October 26, 2021. /CFP

All athletes, coaches and working staff of the German teams had been vaccinated, according to Spies. "We must follow the COVID-19 protocols," said Laura Nolte, who won two bob bronze medals at the IBSF World Championships in in Altenberg, Germany in February. "We need to get used to it during the pandemic. I don't see any trouble doing so." "We had to fight the coronavirus for almost two years. Our life in the competition zone is very comfortable place despite all the restrictions. Though we are in a closed loop, but we can focus on the competitions. The Winter Olympics is the top stage for athletes. It matters the most that we are able to attend it," said Mariama Jamanka, who won the two-woman bob gold in Pyeongchang. "We know there will be strict COVID-19 protocols during the Winter Olympics and that's what we want. It helps us focus on the contest. We are attending the Winter Olympics, not some regional events," said Francesco Friedrich, who won both the two-man and the four-man bob golds in 2018.

Alexander Gassner of Germany competes in the men's skeleton test event for the 2022 Winter Olympics at the National Sliding Centre, October 25, 2021. /CFP Alexander Gassner of Germany competes in the men's skeleton test event for the 2022 Winter Olympics at the National Sliding Centre, October 25, 2021. /CFP