Global exhibitors expand deeper into Chinese market through CIIE
02:23

The China International Import Expo (CIIE) is the world's biggest import-oriented event, and is in line with China's goal of further opening up its economy. Held in Shanghai, it's a platform for thousands of exhibitors worldwide to expand their market, open new sales channels and set up new research and development (R&D) centers to further expand their businesses. It's the first time for Pakistani businessman Habib Ur Rehman and his brother Khizer Jan to participate in the CIIE. In addition to showcasing Pakistani traditional handmade carpets, Rehman hopes to introduce special Himalayan salt lamps.

Pakistani businessman Habib Ur Rehman (R) hopes more Chinese consumers will know and like Himalayan salt lamps through the CIIE. /CGTN Pakistani businessman Habib Ur Rehman (R) hopes more Chinese consumers will know and like Himalayan salt lamps through the CIIE. /CGTN

"This is my first step, and through the CIIE I wish to get other wholesale people, other trade people, other travel agencies to come and learn more about my salt lamps, and spread it out of Shanghai. So definitely, I am looking forward to more details and points out of Shanghai," Rehman told CGTN. According to the CIIE Bureau, close to 3,000 companies are taking part in this year's CIIE, the fourth since it began in 2018. Rehman believes the expo is a good opportunity to expand into China as it's the only import-themed expo in the world. While many small and medium-sized foreign companies have chosen Shanghai as the first choice to tap into the Chinese market, a lot of big multinational companies that have been in China for decades have opened more research and development centers to better serve Chinese consumers. Japanese cosmetics company Shiseido has been in China for 40 years. The company just launched its third R&D center in Shanghai's Fengxian District, aiming to strengthen cooperation with hundreds of local cosmetic and tech companies.

One of Shiseido China's R&D centers in Shanghai, China. /CGTN One of Shiseido China's R&D centers in Shanghai, China. /CGTN