How to make decarbonization economically sustainable
Editor's note: Jim O'Neill, former chairman of Goldman Sachs Asset Management and former UK treasury minister, is a member of the Pan-European Commission on Health and Sustainable Development. The article reflects the author's opinions and not necessarily the views of CGTN.

With all eyes on the United Nations Climate Change Conference (COP26) in Glasgow this month, there has been ample media coverage of youth protests, high-level diplomacy, and new agreements to reduce methane and protect the world's forests. But no task is more important than making decarbonization compatible with efforts to foster economic development in neglected parts of the world. If developing economies 每 and lower-income people in developed economies 每 are not brought along, global climate targets will remain out of reach.

Reading recent commentaries on this topic, I have found myself reminiscing about the oil crises of the 1970s, which I studied closely as part of my PhD. Among the most stimulating analyses is a policy brief for the Peterson Institute for International Economics by my good friend Jean Pisani-Ferry, who argues that "Climate policy is macroeconomic policy, and the implications will be significant." He, too, sees many comparisons 每 as well as key contrasts 每 to the 1970s oil shock.

I have written before about my PhD experience when offering predictions of what might happen to crude-oil prices. I reflect often on those lonely, uncertain three years, because while I was fortunate to be able to undertake such a project, I sometimes suspect that mine was not as worthy as others. Not only did I have extremely poor data to work with, but it was also hard to prove anything. Still, in addition to testing my capacity for independent thought, I learned an invaluable lesson: Never trust anyone when it comes to forecasting oil prices.

Consider the research on the 1970s oil crises that was published at the time (most of which I surveyed as part of my studies, and have kept ever since). The consensus then was that the shocks had ushered in a new era of erratic but persistent increases in oil prices. In fact, the exact opposite happened throughout most of the 1980s and 1990s.

The reason for this trend is still not entirely clear. But among the likely explanations are that there was a strong supply response to higher prices in the form of increased investment in oil production and exploration, as well as in alternatives; and a strong demand response, reflected in improvements in energy efficiency. Japanese energy-consumption patterns since the 1970s provide significant evidence to support this hypothesis.