In search of both purity and governability
Xi Jinping delivers an important speech at a ceremony marking the 100th anniversary of the founding of the Communist Party of China, in Beijing, capital of China, July 1, 2021. /Xinhua

Xi Jinping delivers an important speech at a ceremony marking the 100th anniversary of the founding of the Communist Party of China, in Beijing, capital of China, July 1, 2021. /Xinhua

Editor's note: Lu Xia is an associate professor at the School of Marxism Studies and a research fellow at the National Academy of Development & Strategies, Renmin University of China. The article reflects the author's opinions and not necessarily the views of CGTN.

In his report to the 19th National Congress of the Communist Party of China (CPC), General Secretary Xi Jinping, also the president of the People's Republic of China, pointed out, "To enhance the Party's ability to self-purify, we fundamentally rely on strengthening both the Party's self-supervision from above and the supervision of the mass from below." This is a profound summary of the general law of building a capable ruling party as well as that of effective state governance, which has laid down the principle in theory as well as in practice for the Party.

Five years ago, in 2016, the sixth plenary session of the 18th CPC Central Committee made intra-Party supervision its theme, and the sixth plenary session of the 19th CPC Central Committee which is being held this week shall proceed down the same path.

To realize the historical mission, the CPC must explore an effective way to strengthen self-supervision. The long-term ideals and ambitious goals have enabled the CPC to jump out of the fetters of pragmatism and utilitarianism, which has served as the icon of some Western political parties, to bestow the Party with the courage to self-revolutionize, move inward, and constantly purify its organizations and cadres.

The reason why the CPC has attained great achievements is not that it does not make any mistakes, but that it doesn't hide its mistakes and instead takes remedial measures. Daring to face problems and taking lessons from them, the Party has acquired the ability to regularly purify itself and correct the wrongs.

When the Party set out on the revolutionary journey, it did not find the right path for China right away. After the pioneers encountered setbacks in the Northern Expedition in 1927, they weren't just dwelling on losses; they started to seek remedy quickly and finally got back on the right track.