It would be neo-imperialist to sanction Belarusian-destined airlines
Editor's note: Andrew Korybko is a Moscow-based American political analyst. The article reflects the author's views and not necessarily those of CGTN.

Polish Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki told an emergency parliamentary session that "The ministers [of foreign and internal affairs], [Zbigniew] Rau and [Mariusz] Kaminski are in talks with their EU counterparts on decisive measures against air carriers used in the transfer of people from the Middle East." This is supposedly intended to stop Eastern Europe's migrant crisis that's most immediately emanating from Belarus but which owes its origins to the U.S.-led West's destruction of Muslim countries since the start of this century. If implemented, then these threatened sanctions against Belarusian-destined airlines would actually signify a new form of neo-imperialist pressure.

In general terms, Poland wants to lead the West in supporting multilateral sanctions against airlines that travel to Belarus. This is intended to deter them from traveling there under the risk of potentially not being allowed to fly through EU airspace as punishment if they defy these threats. That could be economically catastrophic for any airline that's already struggling due to the drastic decrease in air travel since last year's onset of the COVID-19 pandemic. It's unimaginable that any company would risk having that happen to them. This could therefore powerfully deter them from flying to Belarus.

That being the likely case, however, this precedent could easily be exploited in the future by expanding its scope to pressure airlines into essentially cutting off and thus isolating other countries that the West hopes to destabilize. After all, if they succeed in doing this to Belarus on an anti-migrant pretext, then there's no stopping them from doing the same to Ethiopia, Myanmar, or whoever else on whatever other pretexts they concoct, perhaps related to "arms trafficking." It's for this reason why the non-West must oppose Poland's proposed sanctions because those countries or their partners might soon find themselves victimized through similarly neo-imperialist means of pressure.