Join Jinbao and travel the world at CIIE's 'Online Country Exhibition'
National Flags of participating countries outside the 4th China International Import Expo (CIIE) in Shanghai, east China. /CFP National Flags of participating countries outside the 4th China International Import Expo (CIIE) in Shanghai, east China. /CFP

Gondola-filled docks in Venice, Italy; migrating elephants in Tanzania's national park; a colorful water market in Pattaya, Thailand; and passionate tango in Argentina¡­ All of this can be experienced by logging on to the official website of the 4th China International Import Expo (CIIE), the "Online National Exhibition."

Promotional video for the Online Country Exhibition-Fiji Hall, at the 4th China International Import Expo (CIIE) in Shanghai, east China. /CIIE Promotional video for the Online Country Exhibition-Fiji Hall, at the 4th China International Import Expo (CIIE) in Shanghai, east China. /CIIE

The "Online Country Exhibition" utilizes visual reality and 3D modeling technology for the first time to build a digital pavilion for participating countries and international organizations to showcase their leading industries and enterprises, culture and tourism, trade and investment, and other aspects.

Promotional video for the Online Country Exhibition-Argentina Hall at the 4th China International Import Expo (CIIE) in Shanghai, east China. /CIIE Promotional video for the Online Country Exhibition-Argentina Hall at the 4th China International Import Expo (CIIE) in Shanghai, east China. /CIIE

Promotional video for the Online Country Exhibition-Argentina Hall at the 4th China International Import Expo (CIIE) in Shanghai, east China. /CIIE Promotional video for the Online Country Exhibition-Argentina Hall at the 4th China International Import Expo (CIIE) in Shanghai, east China. /CIIE

At the entrance of each online national exhibition hall, Jinbao, the CIIE's mascot, welcomes visitors, making them feel like they are really there.

CIIE mascot Jinbao welcomes visitors at the entrance of the Online Country Exhibition-Argentina Hall at the 4th China International Import Expo (CIIE) in Shanghai, east China. /CIIE CIIE mascot Jinbao welcomes visitors at the entrance of the Online Country Exhibition-Argentina Hall at the 4th China International Import Expo (CIIE) in Shanghai, east China. /CIIE

The aim of the "Online Country Exhibition" is to provide a display platform for countries to deepen international trade and economic cooperation and enhance their national influence.

One of the highlights of the 4th CIIE, the "Country Exhibition" is being held online for the first time this year. A total of 58 countries and three international organizations are participating. Among them, 15 countries are featured in the exhibition for the first time, while five countries are attending the CIIE for the first time. Here is a snapshot of what you can find in the online exhibition.