Kane fires England to brink of World Cup, Italy held by Switzerland
Harry Kane scored a first half hat-trick as England romped towards the 2022 World Cup with a 5-0 thrashing of Albania, but Italy still have work to do to reach Qatar after a 1-1 draw with Switzerland.



England need a point to mathematically qualify when they visit San Marino on Monday, but boast a three-point lead and six-goal advantage on goal difference over Poland, who sealed at least a playoff place with a 4-1 win over 10-man Andorra.



The Three Lions can look ahead to Qatar with confidence as they bounced back to form at Wembley in style with all the goals coming before half-time.

England's Harry Kane (R) celebrates scoring his side's second goal of the game during the FIFA World Cup Qualifying match at Wembley Stadium in London, UK, November 12, 2021. /CFP England's Harry Kane (R) celebrates scoring his side's second goal of the game during the FIFA World Cup Qualifying match at Wembley Stadium in London, UK, November 12, 2021. /CFP

"The first half was fantastic, as well as we've played for a long time," said England boss Gareth Southgate.



"We're best when we have an edge and this was a game that could put us on the verge of qualification for the World Cup," he added.



Harry Maguire put a difficult start to the season at club level behind him as the Manchester United captain opened the floodgates with a thumping header from Reece James' free-kick.



England captain Kane has scored just one Premier League goal this season, but now has six in five games for his country.



He is now level with Jimmy Greaves as England's fourth highest goalscorer of all time on 44 and moved ahead of Wayne Rooney with the most competitive goals for the Three Lions.

Teammates console Jorginho of Italy (M) after they tie with Switzerland during the 2022 FIFA World Cup qualifier in Rome, Italy, November 12, 2021. /CFP Teammates console Jorginho of Italy (M) after they tie with Switzerland during the 2022 FIFA World Cup qualifier in Rome, Italy, November 12, 2021. /CFP