Latest data shows Chinese economy is recovering
Getty Getty

Editor's note: Chen Jiahe is the chief investment officer at Novem Arcae Technologies. The article reflects the author's opinions, and not necessarily the views of CGTN. On October 18, China's National Bureau of Statistics announced the country's latest economic data in the third quarter of this year. The latest financial data has shown the market that the Chinese economy is gradually recovering in the post-COVID period and is taking up an important role in the global economic recovery.

Overall speaking, the total GDP of China in the first three quarters of 2021 increased by 9.8 percent compared with one year ago, after the deduction of the impact of inflation. This high growth rate is partly the consequence of a low base in 2020, as the COVID-19 hit the Chinese economy with a surprise at that time and the anti-pandemic measures cost the economy heavily. Taking the third quarter of 2021 alone, China's total GDP increased by 4.9 percent compared with one year ago. As the third quarter of 2020 was a stable period for the Chinese economy, and the impact of the pandemic was not as strong as the previous two quarters, the growth rate expressed in the third quarter of 2021 compared with 2020 can be viewed as a more reliable indicator for the economic growth rate of China in this post-COVID era. Within the different sectors of the economy, the consumption sector has strongly supported economic growth. In the first three quarters, the total social retail value reached 31.8 trillion yuan or 16.4 percent more than one year ago. In this September alone, the total amount of social consumption increased by 4.4 percent compared with the same month in 2020 and is 1.9 percent faster than the data reported this August. One of the most important contributors to the consumption sector of the Chinese economy is internet shopping. For the first three quarters of 2021, China's total amount of internet shopping reached 9.2 trillion yuan($1.43 trillion), 18.5 percent more than one year ago. This large consumption sector takes up almost one-third of China's total retail consumption, which shows us that internet shopping is clearly one of the most important parts of China's consumption market. In this new internet era, many businesses are now eager to conquer their territories on the internet, rather than those traditional brick-and-mortar shopping malls. For example, in the past two years, partly stimulated by the social quarantine measures taken in the COVID-19 situation, internet shopping for fresh food grew rapidly in China. Today, the lacking of appearance in traditional shopping malls can mean little harm to businesses, but the lacking of a considerable appearance on the internet can hurt a business strongly.

China's GDP growth. /CGTN China's GDP growth. /CGTN