Let this be the last call to save planet Earth
Editor's note: Stephen Ndegwa is a Nairobi-based communication expert, lecturer-scholar at the United States International University-Africa, author and international affairs columnist. The article reflects the author's opinions and not necessarily the views of CGTN.

As the world tries all means possible to get out of the throes of the COVID-19 pandemic, another deadlier scourge is threatening humanity's existence. Apparently, we are trapped. But it is not the first time that the scientific world and other authorities have sounded the alarm bells on climate change and total environmental destruction.

This weekend is significant for the world, with three critical events running concurrently. First, the climate-focused meeting of the Group of 20 (G20) most powerful countries took place in Italy over the two-day weekend. Then the 26th United Nations Climate Change Conference, or COP26, begins in Glasgow, Scotland on Sunday, which is also UN World Cities Day. Celebrated on October 31, this year's UN World Cities Day is themed "Adapting Cities for Climate Resilience." Taken collectively, the alarm bells surrounding climate could not have sounded any louder.

Well, this is enough testimony that the time for taking action against global warming is right now. Not to downplay the impact of the pandemic, but it seems COVID-19 is taking a backseat with the realization that climate change poses a greater and more urgent risk than the pandemic. The reason for this attitude is in the vagaries that people are experiencing all over the world within the peculiarities of their regional environment.

For instance, flooding has become a regular occurrence in the Northern Hemisphere and Asia, leading to the death of hundreds of people. Summer 2021 in Europe was also the hottest ever, which is worrying when one takes into account that 2020 was also the hottest on record in all of Europe, with temperatures hitting a scary 40 degrees Celsius. It resulted in wildfires in some countries in Europe, an unusual phenomenon.

Africa and the developing world, in general, suffer from double jeopardy. Not only are occasional droughts becoming frequent and longer as a direct consequence of climate change, but the countries are also absorbing a lot of secondhand emissions from the developed world's industrial complex. The effects of weak climate governance structures in the face of a scourge of such magnitude might be irreparable.