Looking at the Ethiopian crisis through a kaleidoscope
Editor's note: Stephen Ndegwa is a Nairobi-based communication expert, lecturer-scholar at the United States International University-Africa, author and international affairs columnist. The article reflects the author's opinions and not necessarily the views of CGTN.

It is a scenario that observers are finding difficult to comprehend and reconcile. After enjoying peace, stability and progress in the last couple of decades, Ethiopia is yet again in the throes of a political crisis that threatens to claw back all the socio-economic gains that have been accomplished painstakingly over the years.

The riddle that is unfathomable yet is how Prime Minister Abiy Ahmed Ali now finds himself fighting rebels since November 2020 after receiving the Nobel Peace Prize a year earlier in 2019. How is it that within that short span of time the PM has moved from being a darling of the international community ¨C read the West ¨C to a pariah whose name is being mentioned along the same lines with crimes against humanity?

It all started after Abiy rallied legislators to postpone the August 29, 2020 elections for nine months due to risks posed by the rising COVID-19 infections at the time. This infuriated the opposition who were adamant that elections be held on schedule according to the Constitution. Furthermore, the opposition demanded that the interim government dissolve in October 2020 as per the agreement after Abiy was selected to replace Hailemariam Desalegn, who resigned to pave the way for reforms amid mounting unrest.

Tigray's regional ruling party defied Abiy's order and held its own elections, which made the prime minister send troops to pacify the region. It was the start of the now-year-old civil war. Critically, the Addis-Tigray conflict has opened old wounds and brought back actors from previous conflicts. Both the Oromo Liberation Army and Eritrea have supported the Tigray Defense Forces (TDF) and government troops, respectively.

There are various theories to explain the growing civil unrest, ranging from Abiy's high-handedness to Tigray's belligerence. But there is also suspicion that some malevolent forces are a third party in the conflict.