Losing GSP privileges is a sign of China's success
Editor's note: Bradley Blankenship is a Prague-based American journalist, political analyst and freelance reporter. The article reflects the author's opinions and not necessarily the views of CGTN.

The General Administration of Customs of the People's Republic of China (GACC) recently announced that from December 1, the European Union's 27 member states, the United Kingdom, Canada, Turkey, Ukraine and Liechtenstein will no longer grant China a preferential tariff treatment based on the Generalized System of Preferences (GSP).

Under the purview of the World Trade Organization (WTO), the GSP is, at least in principle, designed to help low-income countries better compete in trade. Losing this GSP arrangement then might raise concerns for the success of Chinese exports, especially in labor-intensive sectors, but this would be an alarmist position.

First of all, GSP arrangements are not meant to be permanent. They are meant to help developing countries compete in trade until reaching certain benchmarks. China has achieved these milestones in record time, proving that it is no longer a low-income country and that its products are able to compete on the international market.

This is not just labor-intensive "made in China" commodities but also high-tech products designed and "dreamed up" in China, to borrow a 2005 phrase from journalist Thomas Friedman.

Thanks to an intensive people-centered approach and a "seek truth from facts" mentality, China has transformed from a poor agrarian nation to the world's second largest economy by nominal GDP, with the largest population in the world and the fastest-growing consumer market.

By all indications, China's development has not peaked. Still some parts of the world, particularly in the developed world, have held on to an antiquated view of China as the world's factory floor.

That many developed countries, like Canada and the EU's member states, are dropping GSP arrangements with China is a case in point that this is no longer true. From this perspective, China's policymakers should be delighted by this news as it shows, yet again, the success of their development approach.