Macron inaugurates late artist Christo's 'Arc de Triomphe, Wrapped'
French President Emmanuel Macron on Thursday inaugurated a posthumous installation conceived by the late artist Christo that envelops Paris' Arc de Triomphe monument in 2,500 square meters of silvery blue, recyclable plastic wrapping. "This is the achievement of a 60-year-old dream, a crazy dream come true," said Macron, who was accompanied by his wife Brigitte and officials ranging from Culture Minister Roselyne Bachelot to Paris Mayor and presidential hopeful Anne Hidalgo.

France's President Emmanuel Macron speaks with rope access technicians during the inauguration of the Arc de Triomphe in Paris, France, September 16, 2021. /CFP France's President Emmanuel Macron speaks with rope access technicians during the inauguration of the Arc de Triomphe in Paris, France, September 16, 2021. /CFP French President Emmanuel Macron (3rd L) pays tribute to the tomb of the Unknown Soldier during the inauguration of the Arc de Triomphe in Paris, France, September 16, 2021. /CFP French President Emmanuel Macron (3rd L) pays tribute to the tomb of the Unknown Soldier during the inauguration of the Arc de Triomphe in Paris, France, September 16, 2021. /CFP

Macron said he was particularly happy the installation took place at the Arc de Triomphe because the monument had "suffered so much at the end of 2018," alluding to the looting and vandalism during an anti-government "yellow vest" protests that degenerated in December 2018.

"In Paris, Christo and Jeanne-Claude dreamed of packing the Arc de Triomphe. Today, this project is coming to life," said Hidalgo on Twitter. She also sent congratulations to the teams who worked on the creation and said "thank you to the couple whose works will remain among the most significant of our time."

The final touch to wrap the Arc de Triomphe monument, in Paris, France, September 16, 2021. /CFP The final touch to wrap the Arc de Triomphe monument, in Paris, France, September 16, 2021. /CFP

Imagined in 1961 by the late Bulgarian-born artist Christo, "L'Arc de Triomphe, Wrapped" was finally brought to life by Christo's nephew, Vladimir Yavatchev, at a cost of about 14 million euros ($16.54 million).

Christo, whose full name was Christo Vladimirov Javacheff, was known for his larger-than-life installations. The renowned artist died of natural causes at his home in New York City in late May last year.

The Arc de Triomphe in Paris is wrapped in silver-blue fabric as it was designed by the late artist Christo during its inauguration by the French president in Paris, France, September 16, 2021. /CFP The Arc de Triomphe in Paris is wrapped in silver-blue fabric as it was designed by the late artist Christo during its inauguration by the French president in Paris, France, September 16, 2021. /CFP

He made his name wrapping up landmarks such as the Reichstag parliament building in Berlin and a stretch of coastline in Australia, and strung up a huge curtain in part of a canyon in Colorado.

The Bulgarian-born artist worked closely with his wife of 51 years Jeanne-Claude on the projects until her death in 2009. The pair covered Paris's Ponf Neuf bridge in yellow cloth in 1985.

Vladimir Yavachev, a nephew of late artist Christo, who leads the "L'Arc de Triomphe, Wrapped" project attends a press conference with partners of the project, in Paris, France, September 16, 2021. /CFP Vladimir Yavachev, a nephew of late artist Christo, who leads the "L'Arc de Triomphe, Wrapped" project attends a press conference with partners of the project, in Paris, France, September 16, 2021. /CFP