Man City cruise to derby win, Barca held by Celta Vigo
Manchester United's Ivorian defender Eric Bailly (C) reacts after scoring an own goal during the Premier League match with Manchester City at Old Trafford in Manchester, England, November 6, 2021. /CFP Manchester United's Ivorian defender Eric Bailly (C) reacts after scoring an own goal during the Premier League match with Manchester City at Old Trafford in Manchester, England, November 6, 2021. /CFP

Premier League champions Manchester City cruised to a 2-0 win over struggling Manchester United in their derby at Old Trafford on Saturday. Gifted two goals by United in the first half, City were happy to control the game after the break, while their hosts failed to present any sort of real threat. City were handed an ideal start, going ahead in the seventh minute with an own goal from United defender Eric Bailly, who stretched out a leg but turned a low Joao Cancelo cross into his own net. Cristiano Ronaldo forced Ederson into a full-stretch save with a fine volley, but that turned out to be United's sole effort on the City goal. United, shaky at the back despite playing a three-man central defense, relied on goalkeeper David De Gea to keep them in the game as the Spaniard made a series of saves.

Bernardo Silva (R2) of Manchester City celebrates after scoring a goal against Manchester United during their Premier League match at Old Trafford in Manchester, England, November 6, 2021. /CFP Bernardo Silva (R2) of Manchester City celebrates after scoring a goal against Manchester United during their Premier League match at Old Trafford in Manchester, England, November 6, 2021. /CFP

De Gea smothered a close-range effort from Gabriel Jesus and tipped over a long-range shot from Cancelo before reacting well to stop another potential own goal after Victor Lindelof turned a low Phil Foden ball towards his own net. The Spanish keeper then rose to the challenge again to deny Kevin De Bruyne as City searched for a second. But just before the break, Pep Guardiola's side profited from more woeful United defending with Luke Shaw inexplicably leaving a Cancelo cross deep to the back post, allowing Bernardo Silva to sneak in and poke a shot goalward that crept past De Gea. United are now winless in their last four home league games, losing three of them. City are second, two points behind leaders Chelsea.

Kai Havertz (L) of Chelsea battles for possession with Ashley Westwood of Burnley during their Premier League match at Stamford Bridge in London, England, November 6, 2021. /CFP Kai Havertz (L) of Chelsea battles for possession with Ashley Westwood of Burnley during their Premier League match at Stamford Bridge in London, England, November 6, 2021. /CFP

Thomas Tuchel admitted Chelsea had only themselves to blame as the Premier League leaders were held to a surprise 1-1 draw by struggling Burnley on Saturday. Tuchel's side led through Kai Havertz's first half header and were 11 minutes away from moving five points clear at the top before Matej Vydra stunned Stamford Bridge into silence. It was a brutal blow to Chelsea given their territorial dominance, but they had no response as their four-match winning run in the league came to an end.

Iago Aspas of Celta Vigo kicks the ball against Barcelona during their La Liga match at the Balaidos stadium in Vigo, Spain, November 6, 2021. /CFP Iago Aspas of Celta Vigo kicks the ball against Barcelona during their La Liga match at the Balaidos stadium in Vigo, Spain, November 6, 2021. /CFP

Barcelona threw away a three-goal lead to draw 3-3 at Celta Vigo in La Liga on Saturday in a chaotic game which underlined the scale of the task facing incoming coach Xavi Hernandez. Celta captain Iago Aspas completed a remarkable second-half comeback from the hosts by scoring in the fifth minute of added time after he had pulled their first goal back in the 52nd and Nolito had struck in the 74th to set up a tense finish. Teenage forward Ansu Fati had given Barca the lead in the fifth minute and captain Sergio Busquets extended their advantage with a low strike from outside the area in the 18th before Memphis Depay added a third in the 34th. But Barca experienced a huge drop off in performance in the second half and Celta's stunning comeback extended the Catalans' winless streak to four league games. Barca are ninth in the standings with 17 points after 12 games while Celta are 14th on 12.

Robert Lewandowski celebrates after scoring Bayern Munich's second goal against Freiburg during their Bundesliga match in Munich, Germany, November 6, 2021. /CFP Robert Lewandowski celebrates after scoring Bayern Munich's second goal against Freiburg during their Bundesliga match in Munich, Germany, November 6, 2021. /CFP

Bayern Munich opened a four-point lead at the top of the Bundesliga on Saturday with a 2-1 home win over Freiburg, who suffered their first defeat in any competition this season. Second-placed Borussia Dortmund later missed the chance to trim Bayern's lead when they lost 2-1 at RB Leipzig. In Munich, Leon Goretzka put Bayern ahead with half an hour gone at the Allianz Arena before Robert Lewandowski hit his 13th Bundesliga goal this season with 15 minutes left. Bayern have scored 100 goals this calendar year, one short of the record for a German club, set when Cologne netted 101 times in 1977.

Juan Cuadrado of Juventus celebrates after scoring a goal against Fiorentina during their Serie A match in Turin, Italy, November 6, 2021. /CFP Juan Cuadrado of Juventus celebrates after scoring a goal against Fiorentina during their Serie A match in Turin, Italy, November 6, 2021. /CFP