Nature's critical role in tackling climate change recognized at COP26
02:46

In 2020, The World Wide Fund for Nature (WWF) released the Living Planet report. It is sober reading, claiming 68 percent of the world's biodiversity has been lost since the 1970s and states that "our relationship with nature is broken." At COP26, we spoke to Fernanda Carvalho, global policy manager at WWF to find out what she had to say after 10 days of intense negotiations. In her daily work, she is witness to the environmental devastation wreaked by overproduction to meet the world's thirst for consumption. "It's a sad situation, unfortunately," Carvalho explains. "One million species face the risk of extinction now. So it's a serious situation and we need to halt and reverse biodiversity loss in this decade."

Fire burns in the grass near Bumbalong, Australia, 2020. Three billion animals were harmed in Australia's wildfires in 2019-2020, according to the WWF. /Rick Rycroft/ AP Fire burns in the grass near Bumbalong, Australia, 2020. Three billion animals were harmed in Australia's wildfires in 2019-2020, according to the WWF. /Rick Rycroft/ AP

The importance of protecting nature is not just an emotional or aesthetic one, it is also vital in our fight against climate change. "Fifty six percent of CO2 emissions are captured by nature, by land and ocean systems, every year, so biodiversity has a key role to play," Carvalho explains. Adding that nature also brings its own climate solutions, "for example, mangroves protecting populations from sea-level rises. So nature бн can mitigate about 18 percent of all emissions." So how has COP26 delivered for biodiversity? This week there was a potentially very positive deal between China and the U.S. on a range of climate policies. "I think that was a good initiative," says Carvalho. "Those are the big players in the climate debate, responsible for about 40 percent of emissions. So it's a big thing, this is not small and we think that could inject some political momentum and pressure for the decisions here at this COP." The enthusiasm comes with a little caution, too: "The ultimate test is implementation иC and we want to see what those countries will do back at home with plans, policies to tackle the climate crisis."

In 2010, Chilean Flamingos were found in the Uyuni salt desert in Bolivia. Extreme cold weather and severe droughts pushed migratory Flamingos to abandon their babies to their deaths. /Dado Galdieri/AP In 2010, Chilean Flamingos were found in the Uyuni salt desert in Bolivia. Extreme cold weather and severe droughts pushed migratory Flamingos to abandon their babies to their deaths. /Dado Galdieri/AP