New anti-corruption party on track to win Bulgarian election
Kiril Petkov and Assen Vassilev of Bulgaria's new centrist party are on track to win Bulgaria's parliamentary elections. /Stoyan Nenov/Reuters

Kiril Petkov and Assen Vassilev of Bulgaria's new centrist party are on track to win Bulgaria's parliamentary elections. /Stoyan Nenov/Reuters

A Harvard-educated entrepreneur whose anti-corruption party was formed only weeks ago is emerging as Bulgaria's greatest hope for ending the political deadlock.

Exit polls from the country's third elections of 2021 on Sunday showed Kiril Petkov's We Continue The Change (PP) party on track to win the vote. That would allow the former government minister to lead talks in forming a working government in Bulgaria, a nation suffering badly amid the pandemic.

Petkov, who is on course to become the country's prime minister, has been likened to Canada's centrist Justin Trudeau and France's Emmanuel Macron. "Bulgaria is headed onto a new path," Petkov said.

READ MORE:

Current education path 'unsustainable'

Diversifying Germany's forests

Poland urged to help migrants at Belarus border

The 41-year-old was educated in the U.S. at Harvard University and founded a company that makes vegan probiotics. As caretaker economy minister of the EU's poorest member state, he became one of Bulgaria's first politicians to expose alleged misuse of public funds.

Petkov and another Harvard-educated minister, Assen Vassilev, only formed the new party last September, but PP now looks set to win more than a quarter of the votes cast in the general election.

The party is now considered the best hope for those opposed to former prime minister Boyko Borissov, who faced huge street protests in 2020.

Borissov's decade-long rule at the helm of his center-right GERB party ended with Bulgaria's first election this year in April amid public anger over his failure to crackdown on corruption.

Until now, the country's smaller parties have failed to build a workable coalition to replace Borrisov's party.

Partial results from Sunday's general election show GERB set to come in second place.