New Personal Info Protection Law provides more security for e-shoppers
Digital encrypted lock with data multilayers. /Getty Digital encrypted lock with data multilayers. /Getty

Editor's note: Zhang Nan is an associate professor at the Academy for the Rule of Law, China University of Political Science and Law. The article reflects the author's views and not necessarily those of CGTN. It's fantastic news that the fresh new Personal Information Protection Law is implemented today on November 1. This law will bring more security to Chinese citizens, especially at this time of the year.

First, this law bans lots of identification (ID) fraud and intrusion of personal privacy for online shoppers. November 11 is a huge sale day every year on many e-commerce shopping platforms. But actually, the pre-sale and early sale usually starts in late October. Many shoppers who like discounts and sales would pay pre-sale booking fees such as 50-yuan ($7.8) deposit for the item they would like to buy and keep the item in the shopping cart online. The sale policies are so tempting and many online shoppers easily ignore the option of concealing their shipping addresses for the November sale. So, there has been news reporting that thousands of personal information shipping labels on deliveries have been revealed and traded illegally last November. This makes people grumpy and offended, but there is no specific law to regulate this field yet. Secondly, as an associate law professor, I find the Chapter 4 "Individual's Rights in Personal Information Processing Activities" is so helpful. For instance, Article 44 designates that individuals shall have the right to make decisions on the processing of their personal information, and have the right to restrict or refuse the processing of their personal information by others, except as otherwise provided by any law or administrative regulation. This gives individuals, such as online shoppers legitimate rights to protect their personal information, and a right of refusing or restricting if anything goes wrong. Article 45 is an extension of Article 44. It says individuals shall have the right to consult or copy their personal information from the personal information processor. In addition, this Article requests the personal information processor to provide the information on time.

Icons of e-commerce platform applications are arranged, clockwise from top left, Alibaba Group Holding Ltd.'s Taobao, Pinduoduo Inc., JD.Com, Alibaba's Tmall, Alibaba's Idle Fish flea market and Alibaba, on a smartphone in China, May 25, 2021. /Getty Icons of e-commerce platform applications are arranged, clockwise from top left, Alibaba Group Holding Ltd.'s Taobao, Pinduoduo Inc., JD.Com, Alibaba's Tmall, Alibaba's Idle Fish flea market and Alibaba, on a smartphone in China, May 25, 2021. /Getty