Persisting with sanctions in JCPOA talks will waste potential benefits
Iranian Foreign Minister Hossein Amir-Abdollahian attends a press conference in Tehran, Iran, October 27, 2021. /Getty Iranian Foreign Minister Hossein Amir-Abdollahian attends a press conference in Tehran, Iran, October 27, 2021. /Getty

Editor's note: Hamzah Rifaat Hussain is a former visiting fellow at the Stimson Center in Washington and serves as an assistant researcher at the Islamabad Policy Research Institute (IPRI) in Pakistan. The article reflects the author's opinions and not necessarily the views of CGTN. As calls are made to revive the stalled Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action (JCPOA) nuclear talks in Vienna by the end of November 2021, the Iranian leadership has adopted a clear policy line which serves as a wake-up call for the Biden administration. It maintains that Washington, D.C. has treated it with duplicity and deception by employing a two-pronged strategy centering on maintaining military and economic leverage while pursuing negotiations.

If history is of any retrospective significance to the U.S., persisting with the same mundane strategies as diplomatic blunders with Tehran will only result in further frustration for champions of peace. By now, there is broad consensus in the international community that the resuscitation of JCPOA talks is critical for both Middle Eastern and global stability, yet the Biden administration's approach to the talks threatens to upend it. Iranian Foreign Minister Hossein Amir-Abdollahian has already slammed the announcement of new sanctions dealing with the unmanned aerial vehicle (UAV) program of the country's Revolutionary Guards and the Quds Force, which according to the Iranian leadership goes against the goal of achieving result-oriented dialogue based on mutual interests. Furthermore, sanctions have retained steam since the Donald Trump era in 2018, which the Iranian leadership considers to be a roadblock to meaningful dialogue. Should the Biden administration persist with this brazen policy of retention, the Iranian leadership will continue to be defiant by citing U.S. duplicity. That in itself will be a tragedy for the JCPOA. The Ebrahim Raisi administration has made it clear that the decision to replace coercive diplomacy and aggressive posturing lies solely with the U.S. while also underlining that a concessionary and unconditional approach will result in Iran's swift return to the 2015 JCPOA agreement.

Iranian men talk to each other as they sit in an outdoor cafe in a local bazaar located on a riverside in the seaport city of Anzali, north of Tehran, amid the COVID-19 outbreak in Iran, October 9, 2021. /Getty Iranian men talk to each other as they sit in an outdoor cafe in a local bazaar located on a riverside in the seaport city of Anzali, north of Tehran, amid the COVID-19 outbreak in Iran, October 9, 2021. /Getty