Premier Li's WEF address highlights opportunities and challenges
Chinese Premier Li Keqiang attends the World Economic Forum's special virtual dialogue with global business leaders, delivers remarks and talks with participating global business leaders at the Great Hall of the People in Beijing, capital of China, November 16, 2021. /Xinhua

Chinese Premier Li Keqiang attends the World Economic Forum's special virtual dialogue with global business leaders, delivers remarks and talks with participating global business leaders at the Great Hall of the People in Beijing, capital of China, November 16, 2021. /Xinhua

Editor's note: Dr. John Gong is a professor at the University of International Business and Economics and a research fellow at the Academy of China Open Economy Studies at UIBE. The article reflects the author's views and not necessarily those of CGTN.

This is the second year in a row that Premier Li Keqiang has addressed the World Economic Forum's (WEF) Special Virtual Dialogue with Global Business Leaders during a difficult pandemic time. Last year he did so via a video link, and again on November 16, 2021. Even the messages he sent in the two years seem to be a bit similar in terms of his opening remarks characterizing the status of the Chinese economy.

It goes without saying that last year was a difficult time due to the pandemic. Premier Li indicated this year would still be a challenge. "China's economy бн has encountered new downward pressures" were the words he used to describe the current economic situation, although he also mentioned the resilience and vitality of China's 150 million business entities in the market.

Premier Li is honest and candid about the impacts of these small COVID-19 outbreaks we have been experiencing recently, which inevitably have taken and will take a toll on the economy in the third quarter and potentially the fourth quarter as well. The World Bank, though, is still upbeat about its forecast of China's GDP growth forecast in 2021, tagged at 8.5 percent. The World Bank points to the robust export sector and the near prospect of recovery in China's major export markets. We might still have a chance to break into the 8 percent range, if the remaining one and half months of the year pick up steam.

But regardless of the economic challenges, Premier Li was insistent about China's continued high-quality opening-up during the last two WEF dialogues with global business leaders. Last year he said China would continue to broaden market access, protect foreign companies' legal interests and foster a level playing field for both domestic and foreign companies. This time Premier Li added the emphasis on protecting intellectual property rights in accordance with the law.