President Xi's leadership adds impetus to national rejuvenation
The Political Bureau of the CPC Central Committee presides over the sixth plenary session of the 19th CPC Central Committee in Beijing, capital of China, November 11, 2021. /Xinhua

The Political Bureau of the CPC Central Committee presides over the sixth plenary session of the 19th CPC Central Committee in Beijing, capital of China, November 11, 2021. /Xinhua

Editor's note: Sultan M Hali is a Pakistani writer and security analyst. The article reflects the author's opinions and not necessarily the views of CGTN.

The Communist Party of China (CPC), at the sixth plenary session of the 19th CPC Central Committee held in Beijing from November 8 to 11, adopted a landmark resolution on the major achievements and historical experience of the CPC's 100 years of endeavors. The resolution reiterates the solemn vow of the CPC to make tireless efforts to realize the second centenary goal and the Chinese Dream of national rejuvenation.

It is heartening that the CPC, which in July 2021, crossed the important milestone of completing the centenary since its foundation, has much to celebrate in terms of achievements. Since its founding in 1921, the Party has made seeking happiness for the Chinese people and rejuvenation for the Chinese nation its primary mission.

The first generation of leadership under Mao Zedong, adapting the basic tenets of Marxism-Leninism to China's specific realities, established Mao Zedong Thought, which charted the correct course for securing victory in the new democratic revolution. Implementing a series of important theories for socialist construction, China was transformed from a poor and backward Eastern country with a large population to a socialist country.

The second generation, with Deng Xiaoping as the CPC's chief representative, focused on the fundamental questions of what socialism is and how to build it and established the Deng Xiaoping Theory. During this new period of reform, opening up, and socialist modernization, adopted after the third plenary session of the 11th Central Committee, the CPC led the path to economic revival, scientific achievements, industrialization and rapid development.

The third generation, led by Jiang Zemin, after the fourth plenary session of the 13th Central Committee, CPC deepened the understanding of what socialism is and how to build it, and what kind of Party to build and how to build it. On this basis, this era saw the formation of the Theory of Three Represents, while socialism with Chinese characteristics was successfully launched into the 21st century.

The fourth generation under the leadership of Hu Jintao traversed the path of the Chinese nation advancing in practical, theoretical and institutional innovation during the process of building a moderately prosperous society in all respects and formed the Scientific Outlook on Development. This epoch witnessed the CPC succeeding in upholding and developing socialism with Chinese characteristics under new circumstances.

The fifth generation of leaders, which took the mantle of leadership at the CPC's 18th National Congress, under its new general secretary Xi Jinping as its chief representative, established Xi Jinping Thought on Socialism with Chinese Characteristics for a New Era.

This period has witnessed fresh challenges like the COVID-19 pandemic, which shook the entire world. But China is leading the path, boldly combating the deadly virus, protecting the Chinese nation and lending a helping hand to the rest of the world. Major economic giants are tottering and reeling under the impact of the coronavirus. But China, under the steady guidance of the CPC led by President Xi, has not only steadied the boat but also ensured that less-developed nations also survive and progress.