President Xi's proposals draws attention in the world
The 26th session of the Conference of the Parties (COP26) to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change is being held in Glasgow, Scotland. On November 1, 2021, Chinese President Xi Jinping made a three-pronged proposal in a written statement for the World Leader Summit at COP26, and draws many attentions in the world.

Banner at venue for "UN Climate Change Conference UK 2021". /Screenshot from CMG Banner at venue for "UN Climate Change Conference UK 2021". /Screenshot from CMG

Xi's proposal included upholding multilateral consensus, focusing on concrete actions and accelerating the green transitions. He also stressed the importance of the UN Framework Convention on Climate Change and its Paris Agreement.

President Xi's statement at COP26 Climate Summit. /Screenshot from CMG President Xi's statement at COP26 Climate Summit. /Screenshot from CMG

United Nations Secretary-General Antonio Guterres spoke highly of President Xi's proposals. He said he hopes the Chinese delegation would, as always, give full play to its influence at COP26, strengthen communication and coordination with all parties, and contribute to the success of COP26.

UN Secretary-General Antonio Guterres and the Prime Minister of Barbados Mia Amor Mottley arrive on an electric bus with other leaders and attendees for an evening reception for the attending Heads of State and Government, to mark the opening day of the Cop26 summit in Glasgow./CFP UN Secretary-General Antonio Guterres and the Prime Minister of Barbados Mia Amor Mottley arrive on an electric bus with other leaders and attendees for an evening reception for the attending Heads of State and Government, to mark the opening day of the Cop26 summit in Glasgow./CFP

Antony Froggatt, deputy director of Environment and Society Programme Chatham House, a London-based think tank and also known as the Royal Institute of International Affairs, said global cooperation and technical innovation are crucial for tackling global challenges like climate change.

He gave an example of cooperation among the European Union, China and the United States, saying that there are great potentials for the three sides to work together in renewable energy industry such as solar energy and wind energy.

(With input from Xinhua.)