Protests mark the start of Austria's lockdown for the unvaccinated
Police officers walk along a shopping street after the Austrian government placed more than 2m people, who are not fully vaccinated against COVID-19, on lockdown. /Reuters/Lisi Niesner

Police officers walk along a shopping street after the Austrian government placed more than 2m people, who are not fully vaccinated against COVID-19, on lockdown. /Reuters/Lisi Niesner

Austrian residents unvaccinated against COVD-19 have been placed under lockdown and can only leave their homes for limited reasons, such as working or shopping for essentials.

The restrictions will affect around 2 million people, approximately a quarter of the country, and comes as the nation struggles with a surge in infections and the growing strain on intensive-care units.

"We feel compelled to make this drastic, this difficult cut," Austria's Chancellor Alexander Schallenberg said at a news conference. "The aim is to minimize contact between the unvaccinated and vaccinated, but also between the unvaccinated."

READ MORE:

Current education path 'unsustainable'

Diversifying Germany's forests

Poland urged to help migrants at Belarus border

Thorough police checks have been announced with fines of up to $1,660 for breaches, and all interactions with the police will include checking people's vaccination status.

"I guess a lockdown is the only way to solve the problem for a longer time," book store owner Dagmar Harbich told CGTN Europe. When asked whether she fears a decline in customers due to the lockdown measures, she replied: "Less customers are better than dead customers."

Austria has one of the continent's highest infection rates, with a seven-day incidence rate of 894 per 100,000 people.

To compensate businesses for the loss of unvaccinated customers, the government has again promised to support them with financial aid, which is desperately needed, according to the Austrian chamber of commerce. Estimations predict the retail sector will lose about 35 percent of potential customers.

The approximately 1.4 million unvaccinated employees who have to go to work are still required to show a negative COVID-19 test. According to the Ministry of Health, around 1 million tests per day will be needed.

However, many employers argue there is not enough testing capacity in all parts of the country. And on Monday, there were numerous reports of employees being sent home.