Protests in Poland after death of woman refused abortion
Tens of thousands of Poles had protested in January this year when a Constitutional Tribunal ruling from October 2020 that terminating pregnancies with foetal defects was unconstitutional came into effect, eliminating the most frequently used case for legal abortion.

The government says doctors and not the law were to blame, according to Reuters.

The family of a 30-year-old called Izabela reportedly say the foetus she was carrying had multiple defects but doctors were unwilling to terminate the pregnancy following a ruling that almost all abortions were illegal.

Women's rights protestors have taken to the streets of Warsaw following the death of a woman who was refused an abortion.

First fatality

Activists say Izabela became the first fatality resulting from that ruling when she died of septic shock.

When a scan showed the foetus was dead, doctors at the hospital in Pszczyna, southern Poland, decided to perform a Caesarean. The family's lawyer, Jolanta Budzowska, said Izabela's heart stopped on the way to the operating theatre and she died despite efforts to resuscitate her.

"I couldn't believe it, I thought it wasn't true," Izabela's mother Barbara told TVN24. "How could such a thing happen to her in the hospital? After all, she went there for help."

Budzowska has started legal action over the treatment Izabela received, accusing doctors of malpractice, but she also called the death "a consequence of the verdict".

In a statement on its website, the Pszczyna County Hospital said it shared the pain of all those affected by Izabela's death, especially her family.

"It should ... be emphasised that all medical decisions were made taking into account the legal provisions and standards of conduct in force in Poland," the hospital said.

On Friday, the hospital said it had suspended two doctors who were on duty at the time of the death.

"When it comes to the life and health of the mother ... if it is in danger, then terminating the pregnancy is possible and the ruling does not change anything," Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki said on Friday.