Readings of the vision for Asia-Pacific community with a shared future
The Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation (APEC) logo is seen on a smartphone screen. /Getty The Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation (APEC) logo is seen on a smartphone screen. /Getty

Editor's note: Yuan Sha is an assistant research fellow in the department of American studies at the China Institute of International Studies. A former Fulbright scholar at Columbia University, she has a PhD in International Politics from China Foreign Affairs University. Yuan has published several papers on China-U.S. security relations in Chinese academic journals and regularly contributes to many Chinese media outlets. The article reflects the author's opinions and not necessarily the views of CGTN. In his keynote speech at the APEC CEO Summit 2021, Chinese President Xi Jinping elaborated his vision for an Asia-Pacific community with a shared future. Amid the raging COVID-19 pandemic, uncertain economic recovery and rising geopolitical rivalry, this vision provides much food for thought to boost trust and promote cooperation in the region.

Asia-Pacific community with a shared future Xi laid out this vision at the 27th APEC Economic Leaders' Meeting in 2020. At this summit, he proposed four concrete steps for this goal. First of all, he called for a collective fight against the pandemic as the "most pressing task." He asked the region to adopt a "life-first" policy and coordinate efforts in the "once-in-a-century test," especially in vaccine development, production and mutual recognition. He called for making COVID-19 vaccines a global public good by ensuring vaccine accessibility and affordability in developing countries and alleviating the "vaccine divide." Second, he reiterated the commitment to openness and cooperation. He reminded us that trade liberalization and investment facilitation hold the key to Asia-Pacific peace and prosperity. He then called for forging an Asia-Pacific partnership based on "mutual trust, inclusion, and win-win cooperation" as opposed to "discrimination and exclusion," and cautioned the region not to "relapse into the confrontation and division of the Cold War era." His remarks were a clear rebuke of the rising protectionism, populism and unilateralism that have wreaked havoc on international trade and global supply chains. Third, he proposed green transition as a path for post-pandemic recovery. The Asia Pacific region is vulnerable to climate change and is also confronting a myriad of other challenges, including sustained poverty, as well as food and energy security problems.

View of Shanghai. /Getty View of Shanghai. /Getty