Reopening of regional economy and China's gateway to the outside world
Chinese Premier Li Keqiang attends the 24th China-ASEAN Summit at the Great Hall of the People in Beijing, capital of China, October 26, 2021. /Xinhua

Chinese Premier Li Keqiang attends the 24th China-ASEAN Summit at the Great Hall of the People in Beijing, capital of China, October 26, 2021. /Xinhua

Editor's note: Ji Xianbai is an assistant professor at the School of International Studies at Renmin University of China. He is the author of the book "Mega-regionalism and Great Power Geo-economic Competition." The article reflects the author's opinions and not necessarily the views of CGTN.

The 38th and 39th summits of the Association of Southeast Asian Nations (ASEAN) and related meetings kicked off on Tuesday amidst mounting concerns over not only the political upheaval in Myanmar but also the worsening economic prospects of the region.

Due in part to recurring spikes of COVID-19 cases in regional economic powerhouses such as Malaysia, Indonesia and the Philippines, the Asian Development Bank has significantly lowered regional economic growth forecast for this year from 4.4 percent to 3.1 percent.

To address the undercurrents disrupting economic flow and factory activity in Southeast Asia in particular and the rise of forces driving deglobalization and slowbalization in general, Southeast Asian countries have pinned their collective hopes of reviving economic dynamism on the Regional Comprehensive Economic Partnership (RCEP) ¨C world's biggest free trade pact.

So far, five ASEAN members (Brunei, Cambodia, Laos, Singapore and Thailand) and four ASEAN's Foreign Dialogue Partners (Australia, China, Japan and New Zealand) have ratified the historic trade liberalization and economic integration agreement. As long as one more ASEAN country approves the deal, RCEP will begin to take effect.

Based on analysis using advanced computable general equilibrium modelling technique projects, it is concluded that emerging and developing ASEAN countries like Cambodia, Vietnam and Laos would benefit the most in relative terms from the RCEP-induced trade facilitation, investment protection and removal of non-tariff barriers.

Besides considerations centered on national economic interest, the embracing of RCEP by Southeast Asian countries suggests that ASEAN as a whole has decided to "say no to protectionism, and yes to free trade," as Malaysian International Trade and Industry Minister Mohamed Azmin Ali eloquently declared when negotiating parties sealed the deal in 2020.