Reshuffle the Fed Board now
Editor's note: Simon Johnson, a former chief economist at the International Monetary Fund, is a professor at MIT's Sloan School of Management and a co-chair of the COVID-19 Policy Alliance. He is the co-author, with Jonathan Gruber, of Jump-Starting America: How Breakthrough Science Can Revive Economic Growth and the American Dream. The article reflects the author's opinions and not necessarily the views of CGTN.

Appointing the chair of the board of governors of the United States Federal Reserve is at least as consequential as choosing a U.S. Supreme Court justice. But while no Democratic president would put a Republican on the Supreme Court, President Joe Biden may be giving serious consideration to reappointing Jerome Powell, a Republican appointed four years ago by President Donald Trump, as Fed chair.

The main argument being made in favor of reappointing Powell is that "the Fed has done a good job." Looking forward, however, under current leadership the Fed seems headed for a massively consequential policy mistake. The best way to prevent this outcome is to replace Powell with Lael Brainard, a Fed governor since 2014.

The Fed is in the process of figuring out when and how to tighten monetary policy, in the first instance by removing some of the quantitative easing that was intensified during the early phases of the COVID-19 pandemic. Reducing the volume of monthly bond purchases will push up longer-term interest rates, and this will likely be followed by increases in short-term interest rates.

If the Fed's top officials decide that prices are rising too fast, they can tighten monetary policy sooner and to a greater extent. Recent indications, in the form of public speeches by three Republican-appointed Fed governors 每 Randal Quarles, Michelle Bowman, and Christopher Waller 每 suggest that some officials are moving in the "tighten sooner" direction. This is despite the fact that the data do not yet paint a clear picture, and temporary supply disruptions continue to drive many price increases. The risk of a serious policy mistake is high and rising under Powell, and would represent a major setback for Biden's Build Back Better agenda.

There are currently five Republicans and one Democrat on the Board of Governors. If some version of the Quarles-Bowman-Waller view prevails, as seems likely given the current board configuration, the result is likely to be premature tightening of monetary policy. Powell himself has a track record of raising interest rates first and asking questions later when the economy is expanding. He has also shifted to a more "hawkish" view, emphasizing the risks of inflation in recent weeks 每 as reflected in leading market commentary.

Other things being equal, tighter monetary policy will tend to slow the economy, resulting in the creation of fewer jobs than would otherwise have been possible. Pressure in the labor market will decline as the demand for workers falls, which will lead to lower wage increases 每 or perhaps even a reversal of recent gains.