Restoring citizens' trust on climate change
Environmental protest group Extinction Rebellion floats a replica of a British house in front of Tower Bridge on the River Thames in an action entitled 'Our house is flooding,' in London, England, November 10, 2019. /Getty

Environmental protest group Extinction Rebellion floats a replica of a British house in front of Tower Bridge on the River Thames in an action entitled 'Our house is flooding,' in London, England, November 10, 2019. /Getty

Editor's note: Werner Hoyer is President of the European Investment Bank. The article reflects the author's views and not necessarily those of CGTN.

The world must change how it tackles the climate crisis. The current approach is too slow and risks falling short of our own targets for limiting global warming and mitigating its impact. And, no longer satisfied with political pronouncements, people are demanding action.

This popular unease is borne out by the European Investment Bank's (EIB) annual climate survey. Some 75 percent of European Union (EU) citizens, 69 percent of Britons, and 59 percent of Americans say they are more concerned about the climate emergency than their governments are. And roughly half of those surveyed say the difficulty in solving the climate crisis is primarily due to government inactivity.

For those of us steering public organizations, these findings should be seen as a dire warning. If citizens stop trusting their governments to do something about climate change, many might conclude that there is no hope and give up. Governments then would face an even tougher task gaining public support for the policies and programs that are vital to our future.

We cannot allow that to happen. The remedy for a lack of public confidence is to invest massively in concrete climate projects and innovations, starting immediately. Climate action represents a tremendous business opportunity, and policymakers must be savvy enough to embrace it. The upcoming United Nations Climate Change Conference in Glasgow will serve as a major test of the credibility of governments' commitment to effective action. The whole world will be watching.

For its part, the EU is leading the way with major commitments, including a pledge to reduce its greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions by 55 percent, relative to 1990 levels, by 2030. And as the EU's climate bank, the EIB is at the forefront of this effort, with commitments to support one trillion euros ($1.16 trillion) of investment in climate action and environmental sustainability by 2030.

We are in the critical decade for addressing climate change and biodiversity loss. In all the countries surveyed, large majorities (93 percent in China, 81 percent in the EU, 74 percent in the United Kingdom, and 59 percent in the United States) consider climate change the biggest challenge of this century. Yet, there is a lack of public faith in our chances of meeting current goals. In the EU, 58 percent of citizens believe their country will fail to cut carbon emissions drastically by 2050, compared to 55 percent in the UK and 49 percent in the U.S.

Does this mean our citizens are resigned to environmental disasters? Not yet. A small majority of EU and British citizens believe a radical change in habits is the best way to counter climate change. But technological innovation will be needed to enable those adjustments, which aligns with the views of survey respondents in the U.S. and China about the best way forward.

In any case, investment trumps behavioral change. In 2020, unprecedented pandemic-induced restrictions on mobility and economic activity caused a 5.8 percent drop in global GHG emissions. That might look like good news, but it's really a measure of just how challenging it will be to achieve similar reductions every year from now on.

We need a technological revolution, and when it comes, we must be prepared to finance it. Decades of investment in renewable energy have paid off. Wind and solar power are now highly competitive and widespread. If every driver in the EU switched to an electric vehicle tomorrow, EIB mobility experts estimate that existing wind turbines would be able to provide 85 percent of the electricity needed to power them.