Ronald Koeman sacked by Barcelona, Xavi tipped to take over
Ronald Koeman looks on during Barcelona's La Liga clash with Rayo Vallecano at Vallecas stadium in Madrid, Spain, October 27th, 2021. /CFP Ronald Koeman looks on during Barcelona's La Liga clash with Rayo Vallecano at Vallecas stadium in Madrid, Spain, October 27th, 2021. /CFP

Barcelona have sacked head coach Ronald Koeman and his staff following a poor run of results that sees the Spanish football giants suffer their third loss in their last four league games.



"FC Barcelona have relieved Ronald Koeman of his duties as first team coach. The president of the club, Joan Laporta, informed him of the decision after the defeat against Rayo Vallecano," read a brief statement.



"Ronald Koeman will say goodbye to the squad on Thursday, at the Ciutat Esportiva. FC Barcelona wish to thank him for his service to the club and wishes him all the best in his professional career," it added.

Ronald Koeman (C) talks to defender Gerard Pique during Barcelona's La Liga clash with Rayo Vallecano at Vallecas stadium in Madrid, Spain, October 27th, 2021. /CFP Ronald Koeman (C) talks to defender Gerard Pique during Barcelona's La Liga clash with Rayo Vallecano at Vallecas stadium in Madrid, Spain, October 27th, 2021. /CFP

The 1-0 defeat at Rayo Vallecano on Wednesday night, left Barcelona sitting ninth in La Liga on 15 points, six behind league leaders Real Madrid. The setback followed a 2-1 home loss to Real at Camp Nou on Sunday. It was Koeman's third El Clasico defeat in a row.



"Today we lost the match not because of our attitude, not because of the way we played because I don't think there are other teams that had so many chances against them, therefore the issue is that we didn't score and I can't say anything else," said a frustrated Koeman in a post-match interview on Wednesday.



Koeman's trouble was deepened by Barcelona's financial difficulties, which resulted in club legend Lionel Messi's dramatic departure and subsequent move to French powerhouse Paris St-Germain in the summer.

Argentine superstar Lionel Messi was forced to move Paris St-Germain due to Barcelona's financial trouble. /CFP Argentine superstar Lionel Messi was forced to move Paris St-Germain due to Barcelona's financial trouble. /CFP

"In the last few years our rivals, the best teams, were strengthened each season, while we couldn't do it. And this is something that also counts. I think we played a good game, even if you shouldn't talk about 'good games' when you don't score," Koeman observed.



In August 2020, Koeman left his previous role as Netherlands boss to take over at Barca. In his 15 months in charge, the Dutchman managed 67 Barcelona matches, registering a record of 39 wins, 16 losses and 12 draws.



It remains unclear who will succeed Koeman, but multiple Spanish media outlets have revealed that Barcelona's former captain Xavi Hernandez, who is currently in charge of Al Sadd in Qatar, is the front runner to take over.

Al Sadd coach Xavi Hernandez encourages his players during their Amir Cup final against Al-Rayyan at the Al-Thumama Stadium in Doha, Qatar, October 22, 2021. /CFP Al Sadd coach Xavi Hernandez encourages his players during their Amir Cup final against Al-Rayyan at the Al-Thumama Stadium in Doha, Qatar, October 22, 2021. /CFP