Samaranch Jr. speaks highly of China's preparations for Beijing 2022
Beijing 2022 has promised a simple and safe Winter Olympics and Paralympics. /CFP Beijing 2022 has promised a simple and safe Winter Olympics and Paralympics. /CFP

The Beijing Organizing Committee for the 2022 Olympic and Paralympic Winter Games (BOCOG) has done a "brilliant job" of organizing multiple test events and promoting the global sporting showpiece next year, chairman of the International Olympic Committee (IOC) Coordination Commission for the Beijing 2022 has said.



Juan Antonio Samaranch Jr.'s glowing praise came during the sixth and final Beijing 2022 Coordination Commission meeting, which got underway on Tuesday via a video link. "We have received overwhelming positive feedback from athletes and international organizations on the venues hosting the test events," he said.

Juan Antonio Samaranch Jr., chairman of the International Olympic Committee (IOC) Coordination Commission for the Beijing 2022 has praised the preparation made by Beijing 2022. /CFP Juan Antonio Samaranch Jr., chairman of the International Olympic Committee (IOC) Coordination Commission for the Beijing 2022 has praised the preparation made by Beijing 2022. /CFP

Last week, the first editions of the Beijing 2022 Playbooks were unveiled, offering a peek into the COVID-19 countermeasures that the BOCOG adopted to help each key stakeholder group complete their preparations for traveling to China and competing at the Games.



Samaranch Jr. noted the important role the Playbooks play in ensuring that all Games participants and the people of China stay safe and suggested he remains upbeat despite the upheaval brought about by the ongoing coronavirus pandemic. "The IOC will maintain communication and cooperation with the BOCOG to overcome all difficulties and ensure the success of the Beijing Winter Olympics," he beamed.

IOC President Thomas Bach has thanked the leaders for their support of the 2022 Winter Olympic and Paralympic Games. /CFP IOC President Thomas Bach has thanked the leaders for their support of the 2022 Winter Olympic and Paralympic Games. /CFP

With less than 100 days until the Beijing Olympics, China has stepped up efforts to deliver a memorable Winter Olympics and Paralympics. More than 10 test events and training activities will take place in Beijing in recent months, with the international competitions of luge, skiing, ice hockey and snowboarding in November.



IOC President Thomas Bach has expressed his happiness on Beijing's progress for the 2022 Games. "All that we've heard, so far, from the athletes is that they are excited about the state-of-the-art venues," he said last week. "So, the stage is set for Beijing to write Olympic history as the first-ever city to organize both summer and the winter editions of the Olympic Games."

A decoration featuring the Beijing 2022 logo is seen in a park in Beijing, China, November 1, 2021. /CFP A decoration featuring the Beijing 2022 logo is seen in a park in Beijing, China, November 1, 2021. /CFP