Shell to move tax base to UK amid climate pressure and Dutch anger
Shell plans to relocate its headquarters to the UK has sparked outrage in the Netherlands. /Sergei Karpukhin/Reuters

Shell plans to relocate its headquarters to the UK has sparked outrage in the Netherlands. /Sergei Karpukhin/Reuters

Energy giant Shell wants to switch its headquarters from the Netherlands to the UK and remove "Royal Dutch" from its name, part of a major shake-up that has angered the Dutch government.

Described by UK Business Secretary Kwasi Kwarteng as "a clear vote of confidence in the British economy" post Brexit, the plan would see Shell move its top executives and, most importantly, its tax residence to Britain.

In turn, the Netherlands would lose its biggest company, established in 1890 when the Royal Dutch Petroleum Company was formed and later merged with the UK's Shell Transport and Trading Company. The company has had its headquarters in The Hague since 2005.

"We are unpleasantly surprised by this. The cabinet deeply regrets this intention," Dutch Economic Affairs Minister Stef Blok wrote on Twitter.

READ MORE:

Current education path 'unsustainable'

Diversifying Germany's forests

Poland urged to help migrants at Belarus border

"We are in talks with Shell about the implications of this move for jobs, critical investment decisions and sustainability. Those are hugely important," he added.

Shell, which announced the plans on Monday, says the changes are designed to strengthen the company's "competitiveness and accelerate both shareholder distributions and the delivery of its strategy to become a net-zero emissions business."

It stressed, "the simplification will have no impact" on a Dutch court ruling this year that the company slashes greenhouse gas emissions, a landmark victory for environmentalists.

The move comes as the company faces increased pressure from climate activists. The largest Dutch pension fund, ABP, last month said it would stop investing in all fossil fuel companies.

Activist investor Daniel Loeb, founder of New York-based hedge fund Third Point, took a stake in Shell in October, calling for the company to be broken up, bolster low-carbon investment and deliver more to its shareholders.