Shops in Syria's Khan al-Harir reopen after restoration
An event is held in Khan al-Harir in Aleppo, Syria, October 2, 2021. /CGTN An event is held in Khan al-Harir in Aleppo, Syria, October 2, 2021. /CGTN

Following 18 months of restoration, 60 shops in Khan al-Harir, the oldest site in Syria's ancient city of Aleppo, have reopened their doors to shoppers and visitors. Before the conflict in Syria erupted, Khan al-Harir was a vital destination for selling locally made textiles, silk and other kinds of fabrics, which Aleppo was famous for.

Al-Majidiya Souk in Khan al-Harir, Aleppo, Syria. /CGTN Al-Majidiya Souk in Khan al-Harir, Aleppo, Syria. /CGTN

Jamal Satout, owner of a shop in Souk al-Majidiya in Khan al-Harir told CGTN he was delighted with the reopening of the Khan, and considered its conditions nowadays better than before. "It has a natural look, and we also have a higher rate of work," he said. "The electricity supply is quite good, services as well. They restored the stony walls better than before. They covered the paths with stony tiles, too."

A young man weaves using a handloom in Khan al-Harir, Aleppo, Syria. /CGTN A young man weaves using a handloom in Khan al-Harir, Aleppo, Syria. /CGTN

Mohamad Hamemi is a textile merchant and trader in Khan al-Harir. He remains nostalgic about the old days when the neighboring merchants used to meet and gossip. "The most memories that relate to markets are when we, the neighbors, used to sit together for a morning coffee and chat about our daily agenda, complain about our concerns," he continued. "We had a simple happy lifestyle." Hamemi and other merchants hope to regain the losses caused by the destruction. "Though the markets have reopened to shoppers, more efforts are needed," Hamemi said. "We have to cope and produce as soon as possible to offer our goods and sell them." He hopes that the small steps they are making will attract more consumers.

Gate of Khan al-Harir in the ancient city of Aleppo, Syria. /CGTN Gate of Khan al-Harir in the ancient city of Aleppo, Syria. /CGTN