Sixth plenary session sets tone for new journey of CPC
A press conference on the sixth plenary session of the 19th CPC Central Committee is held in Beijing, capital of China, November 12, 2021. /Xinhua

A press conference on the sixth plenary session of the 19th CPC Central Committee is held in Beijing, capital of China, November 12, 2021. /Xinhua

Editor's note: Stephen Ndegwa is a Nairobi-based communication expert, lecturer-scholar at the United States International University-Africa, author and international affairs columnist. The article reflects the author's opinions and not necessarily the views of CGTN.

The end of the sixth plenary session of the 19th Central Committee of the Communist Party of China (CPC) on November 11 marks another milestone in the country's march towards the Chinese Dream.

The meeting discussed and adopted the Resolution on the Major Achievements and Historical Experience of the Party over the Past Century and the Resolution on the Convocation of the 20th National Congress of the CPC. The past 100 years of the CPC leadership were analyzed and a game plan set for the foreseeable future.

The session also paid tribute to the revolutionary thoughts of Marxism-Leninism put forward by CPC leaders. This unbroken legacy in the country's ideological leaning and leadership has stood China in good stead, with each successor building on the strong foundation of his predecessor.

Basically, the sixth plenary session gave a clean bill of health to the country's socio-economic and political vitals and attributed their resilience and growth to the successful tackling of both national and international challenges. Some of the major achievements that have left an indelible mark on the global stage are the eradication of poverty and the fight against the COVID-19 pandemic.

Undeniably, the CPC is the best political vehicle to drive China's agenda higher, with President Xi Jinping at the core of the wheel that is driving the country's fortunes to new horizons. China has come to terms with its past in all its shades and is now looking into the future to a bold new era. The new dispensation entails opening up more to the outside world and welcoming others to share in its hard-earned success.