Sixth plenary session will hold great significance in China's history
Editor's note: Zhu Zheng is an assistant professor focusing on constitutional law and politics at China University of Political Science and Law. The article reflects the author's opinions and not necessarily the views of CGTN.

The Communist Party of China's (CPC) Central Committee will hold its sixth plenary session from November 8 to 11. Citing a Politburo decision, the Xinhua News Agency released the news a couple of weeks ago, and the meeting has since garnered a lot of media attention.

To political analysts and corporate investors home and abroad, the importance of the upcoming plenary session cannot be exaggerated.

For one thing, the session will trace the Party's current policies to its foundation in 1921 and provide a comprehensive review of the Party's 100 years of endeavor. At the end of the gathering, it is expected that a resolution on the Party's major achievements and experience will be released, which will put the Party's development in a larger perspective and summarize the gains and losses in its century-long history.

For another, the plenary session will be a key gathering because it paves the way for the next year's twice-a-decade national congress. Not only is a major reshuffle expected to take place during the congress, but the direction of the CPC for the next few decades will be charted. Perceived in this light, as a critical event in the lead-up to next year's grand congress, the plenary session will feature factors that can be construed from historical, practical and theoretical perspectives.

Historically, the plenary sessions have usually dealt with critical Party affairs and brought about a sea change to China. People often make reference to the first important plenary session of the Party in 1945, when Mao Zedong was appointed the Party leader and the country was ready for the conclusion of the civil war. It was because of this first sixth plenary session that Mao's thought was established as a basic philosophy guiding the nation forward.