Societal questions hang as COVID-19 death toll passes five million
A nurse cares for a COVID-19 patient in the improvised COVID-19 unit at Providence Holy Cross Medical Center in the Mission Hills neighborhood in Los Angeles, California, U.S., July 30, 2021. /CFP

A nurse cares for a COVID-19 patient in the improvised COVID-19 unit at Providence Holy Cross Medical Center in the Mission Hills neighborhood in Los Angeles, California, U.S., July 30, 2021. /CFP

Editor's note: Bradley Blankenship is a Prague-based American journalist, political analyst and freelance reporter. The article reflects the author's opinions and not necessarily the views of CGTN.

The global death toll from COVID-19 surpassed five million on November 1, less than two years after it was first detected and even less time since the disease was declared a pandemic by the World Health Organization. Rich and poor countries alike have been ravaged by the disease, showing that societies across the globe are faced with serious questions.

One of the most pressing questions is equity and how global society can survive without it. As was brought up during the recent Group of 20 (G20) leaders summit, only 3.1 percent of the people in low-income countries have received at least one dose of a COVID-19 vaccine. Africa is uniquely hit by this inequity, with only five percent of the continent's population of 1.3 billion fully vaccinated.

On the other hand, the more industrialized G20 countries have used an estimated 82 percent of the world's vaccines yet only represent about 62 percent of the global population. But even minority groups in some of these highly-developed countries, like Black and Hispanic people in the United States, who are more likely to have less access to health care than white people, have suffered worse health outcomes during the pandemic.

As has been stated countless times by health experts across the globe, including WHO leaders, vaccine inequity will inevitably prolong the pandemic by keeping the disease circulating at higher volumes for longer. Rich countries must prioritize vaccine distribution to poorer countries and make good on the promises they made earlier this year.

Richer countries that have more vaccinated populations also face the question of how to turn the deadly and highly transmissible virus into a manageable issue.

Middle and high-income countries, like the United States and those in the European Union, account for nearly half of all reported COVID-19 deaths but have about one-eighth of the world's population. That's because these countries largely failed to contain massive COVID-19 outbreaks, leaving their populations vulnerable and health care systems inundated with patients.