Strengthening the WHO is the key to global health
The entrance of the World Health Organization (WHO) headquarters in Geneva, Switzerland, June 15, 2021. /Getty The entrance of the World Health Organization (WHO) headquarters in Geneva, Switzerland, June 15, 2021. /Getty

Editor's note: Thomas O. Falk is a London-based political analyst and commentator. He holds a Master of Arts degree in international relations from the University of Birmingham and specializes in U.S. affairs. The article reflects the author's opinions and not necessarily those of CGTN. On October 29, G20 finance and health ministers will meet in Rome. The meeting will be chaired jointly by Daniele Franco, Italian economics and finance minister, and Roberto Speranza, Italian health minister.

The latter is essential as Italy seeks to establish a new fund, the Global Health Financing Board and the Financial Intermediary Fund, to provide financial aid to prevent and control future pandemics. The majority of the G20 members support the project. However, such an undertaking would undermine the World Health Organization (WHO) and show that the international community did not learn from its previous mistakes. Since the beginning of the pandemic in January 2020, the G20 has been working to find solutions to combat the current COVID-19 problem and tackle future pandemics effectively. As part of these efforts, the Group has established the G20 Plan of Action to help world economies deal with the crisis, an initiative to support the most vulnerable countries through the Debt Service Suspension Initiative as well as the implementation of the Special Drawing Rights, the allocation from the International Monetary Fund (IMF). Several efforts have also stimulated economic recoveries, such as increasing productivity through investments geared towards a green and digital transition. Evidentially, the G20 believes that it will not be possible to develop a coordinated global approach to dealing with future pandemics without an adequate funding system. This is why the G20 has set up a high-level independent body to fund the global commons for pandemic preparedness and response. Establishing the Global Health Financing Board and the Financial Intermediary Fund is hence considered a coherent move towards universal health pandemic prevention. However, not all G20 members are advocates of the model. For example, China has stated that it supports strengthening the global governance system and financing pandemic prevention. Still, all of this should continue to work within the framework of the World Health Organization (WHO).

G20 nations' health ministers take a group photo at the end of the first day of their meeting in the Campidoglio, Rome, Italy, September 5, 2021 /Getty G20 nations' health ministers take a group photo at the end of the first day of their meeting in the Campidoglio, Rome, Italy, September 5, 2021 /Getty