Sudan's 'military-civilian co-governance' dies halfway
Editor's note: He Wenping is a senior research fellow at the Charhar Institute and China Africa Institute of Chinese Academy of Social Sciences. The article reflects the author's opinions, and not necessarily the views of CGTN.

In the early morning of October 25, a military takeover took place in Sudan in northeastern Africa. General Abdel Fattah al-Burhan, the commander-in-chief of the armed forces, declared a state of emergency, disbanded the Sovereignty Council and the Transitional Government, and removed all governors from their posts. Abdalla Hamdok, prime minister of the transitional government, was once "kidnapped", and several Transitional Government ministers were arrested by the military.

The streets of Khartoum, the capital, were in chaos. Soldiers shot at demonstrators supporting the prime minister of the transitional government. At least seven people were killed and more than 140 others injured in the conflict.

Political transition failed, "military-civilian co-governance" died halfway

This round of Sudan's political transition process was officially launched after the stepping down in April 2019 of "strongman" Omar al-Bashir, who ruled Sudan for 30 years. Bashir's overthrow was also due to continuous protest marches and sit-in demonstrations by the masses. The increasing pressure eventually forced the military to choose a side, abandon the president who was condemned by the anger and popular grievance, and the military itself embarked on a political course.

But unlike other countries with similar political transition experiences, after Sudan overthrew the long-ruling "strongman" rule, it started transiting to a "military-civilian co-governance," that is, the military invited some civilian officials and "protest groups" to form the "Sovereign Council" at the helm of state power. Under the leadership and supervision of the "Sovereign Council," Sudan established a "transitional government" composed mainly of technocrats, with Hamdok as prime minister.

In the 11-member council, the ratio of military to civilian officials is 6:5, and General Burhan is its president. However, according to the relevant provisions of the Constitutional Declaration, initially accepted by all parties, the presidency was to be held alternately by military and civilian officials, that is, military personnel in the first half and civilian officials in the second half.

According to the provisions, the presidency should be transferred to civilian officials in the fall of this year. However, an army accustomed to holding power does not find it easy to give up such a key position. Since the middle of this year, around the transfer of the presidency of the Sovereign Council, the reorganization of the government, and the distribution of related powers and interests, military personnel and civilian officials have blamed each other, and contradictions have escalated.

Now, the Sudanese military has once again proved that "hard mouth" is not as hard as "gun barrel" by launching a military takeover. The disbandment of the transitional government by the Sudanese military and its own full power front shows that Sudan's "military-civilian co-governance" in the post-Bashir era has died halfway.