Tesla shares skid as investors brace for possible Musk stock sale
Tesla shares posted their worst daily fall in 14 months on Tuesday as investors dumped the high-flying stock ahead of a possible stake sale by company chief Elon Musk.

Nearly $200 billion in market capitalization was wiped off from Tesla as Musk's potential sales of his $17 billion stake triggered concerns about the stock's valuation following a flurry of stock sales by some board members.

The rout comes after Musk asked his Twitter followers over the weekend if he should sell 10 percent of his stake in the company as Washington proposes to hike taxes for the super-wealthy. Nearly 58 percent said they would support such a sale.

Musk could time the proposed sale to coincide with a federal tax bill of nearly $11 billion that would be triggered by exercising a chunk of his Tesla stock options, worth $26.6 billion as of Monday's close.

After the sharp run-up in Tesla's shares, "Musk has used the now moot political debate on billionaire taxes as an opportunity to monetize billions of his wealth without reflecting a negative view on the company or its share price," wrote Michael O'Rourke, of Jones Trading, in a note late on Monday.

"It is highly unlikely that there are institutional buyers for Tesla shares at current prices."

The shares are up nearly 50 percent year-to-date after hitting a series of record highs, triggered by a large order for Tesla cars placed by rental car company Hertz.

The electric-car maker's shares ended down 12 percent at $1,023.50 on Tuesday, the biggest daily percentage drop since early September last year. They shed $138 billion in market capitalization, far more than the total market value of Ford Motor, in addition to losing nearly $60 billion on Monday.

About $62 billion worth of Tesla shares changed hands on Tuesday, sharply up from $39 billion on Monday.

"We do feel the stock has moved up substantially in the short term and is probably over-valued by about 20 percent so... for long term investors this isn't a bad time to re-balance by any means," Tesla bull Ross Gerber said on Monday.