The United States does not have a monopoly over democracy
Editor's note: Danny Haiphong is an independent journalist and researcher in the United States. He is a contributing editor to the Black Agenda Report, co-editor of Friends of Socialist China and founding member of the No Cold War international campaign. The article reflects the author's opinions and not necessarily the views of CGTN.

U.S. President Joe Biden will hold the "Summit for Democracy" beginning on December 9. According to the U.S. Department of State, the summit will "provide a platform for leaders to make both individual and collective commitments to defend democracy and human rights at home and abroad." Concrete details of the civil society organizations, government institutions, and representatives of the private sector invited to the summit have yet to be announced. President Biden has asserted that the summit is one step in a long-term process of "democratic renewal."

The summit, far from an example of "renewal," reinforces the worldview that the United States possesses a monopoly on democracy. It begins from the vantage point that the United States is positioned to teach others about the perils of "authoritarianism." Democracy is rendered abstract; a lofty goal that is achievable only when the United States is the force leading the effort. Terms such as transparency, corruption, and human rights are used to draw a sharp contrast between U.S.-style democracy and other forms of governance that fail to conform to its standards.

However, the United States is in no position to lecture the world about democracy. Democratic governance in the United States faces several crises of confidence. First, the United States' political system has been unable to adequately address the COVID-19 pandemic. The COVID-19 pandemic was politicized in the United States from the outset, with neither major party in Washington being able to take responsibility in charting a truly national response to the public health crisis. Such political turmoil has led to more than 735,000 U.S.-based deaths from COVID-19 and counting.

The politicization of COVID-19 has only exacerbated a deeper crisis in U.S. "democracy." A growing number of people in the United States have lost trust in the political process. According to Pew Research Center, a mere 20 percent of people in the United States trust the federal government to "do the right thing" most or all of the time. Media institutions in the United States are also suffering from declining trust. Although the United States champions "free speech" as a key pillar of democracy, less than half of U.S. population trusts traditional media such as the New York Times or CNN.