The plan to transform Paris into a '15-minute city'
03:48

The Mayor of Paris says that she wants to make the French capital a so-called "15-minute city." Anne Hidalgo has backed an idea conceived by Colombian academic, Carlos Moreno. The theory is that most people's needs would be within 15 minutes of where they lived. How will it work? The 15-minute city plan would see people's workplaces, their children's schools, sport centers where they exercise, cafes and restaurants where they meet their friends, and the stores they shop in¡­ all be within a 15-minute walk or short bike ride from their home.

Some 60km of temporary cycle lanes introduced in Paris during the pandemic will now be made permanent by the mayor of Paris. Some 60km of temporary cycle lanes introduced in Paris during the pandemic will now be made permanent by the mayor of Paris.

Carlos Moreno is a professor at the Sorbonne University in Paris, where he lectures on the "Entrepreneurship, Territory, Innovation" program that he co-founded. "With climate change and the pandemic crisis, we needed to implement another urban lifestyle for living in proximity," he said. "[We should be] using more and better resources, reducing our CO2 emissions, and to continue to develop economic and social activities in the different districts of cities." Urban travel is a central pillar of the plan: Paris is fast becoming a big biking city. Temporary cycle lanes were introduced last year at the height of the pandemic, but now those 60 kilometers of makeshift paths are being made permanent by the mayor of Paris.

People walk through the financial and business district of La Defense in Puteaux near Paris, France. /Reuters/Sarah Meyssonnier People walk through the financial and business district of La Defense in Puteaux near Paris, France. /Reuters/Sarah Meyssonnier

Parisians tried to get back to normal after lockdown but they wanted to stay off crowded buses and trains where COVID-19 spread more easily. Anne Hidalgo has declared war on the pollution caused by motorists, cutting the number of car parking places, increasing electric vehicle charging points and dropping the speed limit in the French capital to just 30 kilometers an hour. The mayor of Paris is an advocate of the 15-minute city idea. Hidalgo says she's going to run for president next year so Carlos Moreno's theory is likely to get more press and it will have to withstand more analysis and criticism about its viability. Improving the urban landscape is also part of the plan. At the Place de la Bastille, in eastern Paris, trees have been planted and the canal-side area cleaned up. The 15-minute city plan could work well in rich countries, like France.

Climate activists stand next to a giant portrait of French President Emmanuel Macron installed on the ground at Trocadero square in front of the Eiffel tower to mark the fifth anniversary of the 2015 United Nations Paris Agreement on climate change, in Paris. /Reuters/Benoit Tessier/File Photo/File Photo Climate activists stand next to a giant portrait of French President Emmanuel Macron installed on the ground at Trocadero square in front of the Eiffel tower to mark the fifth anniversary of the 2015 United Nations Paris Agreement on climate change, in Paris. /Reuters/Benoit Tessier/File Photo/File Photo