The subordination of women in Texas
Editor's note: Chiara Cordelli is associate professor of political science at the University of Chicago and author of "The Privatized State" (Princeton University Press, 2020). Aziz Huq is professor of law at the University of Chicago and author of the forthcoming "The Collapse of Constitutional Remedies" (Oxford University Press, 2021). The article reflects the authors' opinions and not necessarily the views of CGTN.

In 1984, the late U.S. Supreme Court Justice Ruth Bader Ginsburg gave a lecture on why Roe v. Wade, the Court's 1973 decision recognizing a constitutional right to abortion, was wrongly decided. The case, she explained, should never have been framed as a matter of privacy or reproductive choice alone: Abortion was at the bottom a question of gender equality.

Thirty-seven years later, Texas is proving Ginsburg's point with its draconian and potentially transformative abortion law. If the Supreme Court upholds the law 每 it just heard oral arguments on whether to permit two legal challenges to proceed 每 it will set back gender relations to an era that precedes the living memory of most Americans.

The Texas law, Senate Bill 8 (SB 8), doesn't just ban abortion after six weeks. It also empowers ordinary citizens to sue anyone who aids or abets an abortion: an employer whose paycheck is used to fund it, a driver who gives someone a ride, or a parent or partner who lends a shoulder to cry on. Liability requires no evidence of intent. The taxi driver who unwittingly takes a person halfway to an abortion clinic is subject to a minimum $10,000 fine. The Texas law is likely to be a model for abortion regulation if the Supreme Court uses the challenges to it to scale back Roe. Florida and Ohio are already champing at the bit to enact laws permitting analogous private "remedies" to curtail abortion.

Predictably, the Texas law has already sparked intensive surveillance of abortion providers. But SB 8 will likely have a wider and more insidious consequence if it is upheld. It will subject women to a life of vulnerability and fear vis-角-vis every possible plaintiff authorized to sue 每 which the law defines as almost everyone.

This directly affects not only reproductive choice. It also creates, in three different ways, a relation of dependency, and ultimately subordination, for women. It leaves them in an inherently unequal and degrading condition 每 an outcome that is largely independent of the law's effects on abortion.

For starters, SB 8 will elicit intrusive surveillance of women by employers, merchants, and ordinary ride-share drivers, pharmacy clerks, and bank employees. Under SB 8, all of these people suddenly have a pecuniary interest in knowing whether women are pregnant before helping them. Strangers, no less than close friends, will have a material interest in knowing about a person's sex life. The law thereby jeopardizes women's hard-won sexual privacy, whether they are pregnant or not. This loss of privacy about intimate sexual and bodily decisions is likely to be especially profound for poorer and socially marginalized women, who depend disproportionately on interactions with others in their daily lives.

Moreover, SB 8's financial incentives are likely to prompt greater digital surveillance by firms wishing to avoid liability, as well as more aggressive exploitation of Big Data to discern women's reproductive status. Many firms already have extensive workplace surveillance systems (often expanded during the pandemic) that can gather evidence of pregnancy. Others have wellness programs that capture data on movement, body mass index, and other biological indicators from which pregnancy can be inferred. Risk-averse employers can easily retool these data-heavy workplace monitoring systems to detect pregnancy.