The 'China threat' is a dangerous card for India to toy with
Editor's note: CGTN's First Voice provides instant commentary on breaking stories. The daily column clarifies emerging issues and better defines the news agenda, offering a Chinese perspective on the latest global events.

India is engaging in a dangerous game by playing up the China threat instead of looking for ways that the two sides can resolve their disputes along their mountainous border. On November 11, Defense Chief General Bipin Rawat said in a public forum that there is no doubt that China is India's "enemy number one." He said that a lack of "trust" and growing "suspicion" is standing in the way of resolving the border dispute.

Right now, the Indian military is undergoing its biggest shake-up since the country achieved independence. The Modi administration is trying to integrate the army, air force and navy, modernizing its military to work like the modern forces in the U.S. and China. It's a delicate time for Indian military, and conjuring up a new threat is a good way to firm up political support, defend bureaucratic turf amid big changes, and increase military budgets.

Trying to arouse domestic support by pointing to an external threat is a tried and true tactic of populist politicians. This strategy works in the short term, but risks creating self-fulfilling prophesies that lead to unnecessary conflict in the bigger picture.

Mixing domestic political objectives with international relations is always a bad idea. Narrow domestic concerns tend to overshadow international problems that could be solved by highly technical negotiations by experts on both sides. Both India and China have important and sensitive national interests in the border dispute. The two nations have already had conflict once over the territorial claims. And last July, India said it lost 20 soldiers during a border-clash with China.

The idea of China being a threat is deeply wired into the psyche of India security officials. In fact, this fixed idea may be a big part of the source of the lack of trust and suspicion. Even with positive developments toward de-escalation like Rawat noted, China always remains "the enemy." This has very negative implications for the stability of the region.