The U.S. is not a global builder
U.S. President Joe Biden listens to the speakers during the World Leaders' Summit "Accelerating Clean Technology Innovation and Deployment" session on day three of COP26 in Glasgow, Scotland, November 2, 2021. /Getty U.S. President Joe Biden listens to the speakers during the World Leaders' Summit "Accelerating Clean Technology Innovation and Deployment" session on day three of COP26 in Glasgow, Scotland, November 2, 2021. /Getty

Editor's note: Bobby Naderi is a London-based journalist, guest contributor in print, radio and television, and documentary filmmaker. The article reflects the author's opinions, and not necessarily the views of CGTN. Addressing the COP26 meeting in Glasgow on November 2, U.S. President Joe Biden said there was an urgent need for high-quality, climate-friendly infrastructure in developing countries, and that some of the world's advanced economies would finance that infrastructure globally.

What's rather odd is that Biden, who wanted to come to Glasgow armed with a reconciliation bill for climate spending, and still hasn't got it, also played up the idea that he wanted to offer developing countries a transparent alternative to "debt traps and corruption," an oblique reference and attempt to tank and counter the Belt and Road Initiative (BRI), the largest infrastructure development project on the planet. There are so many other things to worry about, but is the U.S. really prepared to finance and build infrastructure globally? No matter how well debated, is the developing world willing to allow Washington to put on a new show against China, or even draw a big enough audience among the beleaguered allies for its politics of expensive empty gestures that only undermines multilateralism and violates sovereignty of nations? A shaky idea It may be a clarifying way to start the argument that the U.S. is not even close to pulling its weight in the climate fight, or lead the world's advanced economies in building infrastructure for the developing countries. It's a shaky idea that this "offer" is coming from Washington. Biden and his administration officials are pretending to help the developing world but they are lying. Although the addiction of beltway in Washington to undermine UN institutions through economic sanctions and malign activities is pushing many developing economies to the brink, they don't face a stark choice. Given America's financial and banking woes, not even allies would bother to pull their weight. They know that above all else, the U.S. cannot change the situation in response to China's global infrastructure project and consistency of message. They also suffer from Washington's lackluster leadership on climate change and international commitments.

British Prime Minister Boris Johnson and U.S. President Joe Biden attend the World Leaders' Summit "Accelerating Clean Technology Innovation and Deployment" session on day three of COP26, in Glasgow, Scotland, November 2, 2021. /Getty British Prime Minister Boris Johnson and U.S. President Joe Biden attend the World Leaders' Summit "Accelerating Clean Technology Innovation and Deployment" session on day three of COP26, in Glasgow, Scotland, November 2, 2021. /Getty