Theater through the lens of young and burgeoning directors
07:22

I've always heard much about the Wuzhen Theatre Festival: How it's dreamy yet full of energy, how it's young yet gleaming with sparkling thoughts. For the past week, I've been here finding out what theatre is through the lens of burgeoning talents and young artists.



On a drizzling morning, I met with Yang Ting, an established director, to find out more about her play "Still Barking," the story of an elderly mother kept under surveillance by her supposedly caring children.



Yang explained the focal point of the young playwright. "I was equally curious," the director said. "Her grandparents live by themselves in an old apartment in southern China. And her parents wanted to be able to check in on them anytime, anywhere, so they installed cameras. She drew her inspiration from this. To be honest, I was quite fascinated by the depth of this piece of work. Through the perspective of a surveillance camera, she digs deep into the loneliness and anxieties experienced by some seniors in modern times."

Performers take to the street during the 8th Wuzhen Theatre Festival, Jiaxing City, Zhejiang Province, east China. /CGTN Performers take to the street during the 8th Wuzhen Theatre Festival, Jiaxing City, Zhejiang Province, east China. /CGTN

Drawing on his working experience at one of China's large tech companies, Shenzhen-based director and playwright Wang Haoran presents "Game Boy," a story alternating between the real and virtual world of a coding engineer. For Wang, theatre is all about the present, "I want to focus on now, for the time being. I don't want to talk about history," he said.



While Yang and Wang focus on how technology and the digital world reshape our day-to-day experiences, He Qi zooms in on the highs and lows of marriage life for millennials. The director of "The Cat" told me that the laid-back lifestyle of Wuzhen serves as a stark contrast to the city life featured in her story. "Many people who come here for the festival are young people and city dwellers," He said. "For example, in Beijing, my theatre experience is always rushed. It takes an hour to get to the theatre from most places, and by the time the show starts, I'm exhausted. But perhaps this drastically different setting here, which offers some serenity, enables us to look at our city life from another perspective." "We are removed from our urban setting, so we can better experience the problems this young married couple experience in their day to day lives."