Think small to fight climate change
Editor's note: Kristina Skierka is CEO of Power for All. Richenda Van Leeuwen is executive director of the Aspen Network of Development Entrepreneurs. The article reflects the authors' views and not necessarily those of CGTN.

When applied to droughts, wildfires, hurricanes, floods, or other extreme weather events, the term "unprecedented" is getting old. In August, when the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change released its latest report about the dire realities we face, a drought exacerbated by global warming already had been raging for years across much of southern Africa.

It seems as though world leaders are finally ready to take meaningful action, but there's a critical group regularly missing from key climate meetings like the recent United Nations Climate Change Conference (COP26) in Glasgow: local, climate-focused small businesses that already are making a difference in their communities. Small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs) working on climate adaptation and mitigation are a crucial but underestimated partner in the fight to reduce emissions.

Even though climate financing options are increasing, SMEs' role in sustainable development continues to be overlooked. Their predicament is one shared by more than 200 million SMEs of all types in developing countries that cannot get the funds they need to grow, facing an estimated $5.2 trillion annual financing gap. International investors focus on getting dollars out the door through larger deals, while local capital is kept on the sidelines by high collateral requirements and unmanageable interest rates for early-stage businesses.

SMEs represent 90 percent of businesses and provide more than 50 percent of jobs worldwide according to the World Bank, so they have a key role to play in creating opportunities in economies struggling to recover from the COVID-19 pandemic. Examples like SELCO India, a pioneering off-grid solar company, and Husk Power, an innovative pay-as-you-go renewable energy provider operating in Asia and Africa, show that with the right amount and type of financing and technical support, small businesses can improve lives through energy access ¨C a key international goal. Off-grid renewables also help power sustainable mobility in both rural and urban settings.