Time for the Biden administration to walk the walk on China
Editor's note: CGTN's First Voice provides instant commentary on breaking stories. The daily column clarifies emerging issues and better defines the news agenda, offering a Chinese perspective on the latest global events.

Over the weekend, U.S. National Security Advisor Jake Sullivan told CNN in an interview that the United States was seeking coexistence with China, which was not, as assumed, seeking to forcefully change the country or undermine its government, denying a lurch toward confrontation. As he stated: "The goal of America's China policy is to create a circumstance in which two major powers are going to have to operate in an international system for the foreseeable future," but nonetheless that America sought to make an environment "favorable" to its interests, values and partners.

To some degree, the comments could be seen as an admission to a truth that should've been acknowledged by the United States a long time ago ¨C that they cannot impose their own systems or a version they prefer onto another country. Proselytizing a single point of world view doesn't function in a diverse world with various cultural differences and historical backgrounds. It can never rely on taking out a certain form of government to remove what it believes to pose a "threat" to its rule.

And they are a welcomed departure from the vilifying, fanatical and aggressive mantra of the previous administration and the China hawks in the country. It is true that the Biden administration has steered away from the most extreme and unhinged aspects of the Trump presidency that were dangerously risking a Cold War-like confrontation. However, saying that, the current White House still has some length to go in order to follow up its words here, with actions. It needs to show China some good faith and pragmatism.

What's worrisome is that an admission of its inability to change China's political system might not be translated into pragmatic dealings with the country. The United States, with anti-China sentiment still running high, is seeking to suffocate the Chinese system after realizing that it can't change it. It has already consolidated security alliances around China by advancing the Quad, and the AUKUS with the UK and Australia. Economically, the U.S. has sought to gather allies in stepping up efforts in their own multi-national projects that mimic China's.