Time to give the DPRK sanctions relief; compromise is the only way
Editor's note: Tom Fowdy is a British political and international relations analyst and a graduate of Durham and Oxford universities. He writes on topics pertaining to China, the DPRK, Britain and the U.S. The article reflects the author's opinions and not necessarily the views of CGTN.

Last week, China and Russia circulated a joint resolution at the United Nations Security Council seeking relief on sanctions imposed on the Democratic People's Republic of Korea (DPRK). The sanctions had been imposed at the lead of the United States, largely in 2017, which banned most exports and economic transactions with the country in response to its growing nuclear and missile tests. They were a part of the Trump administration's "maximum pressure" campaign against the country.

By 2018, that campaign came to an end as the U.S. foreign policy shifted towards dialogue with Pyongyang and a series of summits took place between Donald Trump and Kim Jong Un. However, these meetings yielded no results, and following the abrupt aborting of the meeting in Hanoi by the U.S. president, dialogue between America and the DPRK has been at a stalemate for over two years, almost exclusively due to Washington's insistence on an "all or nothing" approach to denuclearization and sanctions relief. Meanwhile, Pyongyang has continued to test missiles and ramp up its capabilities.

America's zero-sum approach to DPRK diplomacy is vested in its long-term strategic calculation that the country acts as a legitimation for its continuing military presence on the Korean peninsula as well as the belief that total capitulation of Pyongyang to its terms via enduring pressure is preferable to compromise.

As a result, Washington has long refused to normalize ties with Pyongyang and blocked Seoul's peace overtures to formally end the Korean conflict. To "live with the DPRK" is seen as a strategic defeat by some.

Concurrently, the U.S. has long miscalculated Pyongyang's long-term strategic view. The DPRK sees the United States as the most critical threat to its own existence and has long formulated a foreign policy strategy built upon the premise of sustaining government survival through the pursuit of maximum sovereignty, which manifests in its Juche ideology.

This proclaims that the country should struggle against the odds in order to "control its own destiny" and gain things on its own terms, as opposed to submitting to others, through a process of struggle of which it is willing to endure costs to do so.

As a result, the DPRK utilizes its nuclear and missile programs as the ultimate guarantee of national sovereignty against the United States with the long-term goal of forcing the U.S. to eventually accept it and negotiate with it as an equal, ending its "hostile policy."