Tofu Beautyÿ≠1.4 Billion
06:37

One day in 2015, a group young people were hanging out in a village, discussing the possibility of building a national brand out of their hometown. °∞The geographic condition of our village is advantageous. We could organize a Spring Festival for the farmers,°± said one of them.

Pinglang Village is located in central China's Hunan Province. /CGTN Pinglang Village is located in central China's Hunan Province. /CGTN

This is Shi Qingxiang. She grew up in Pinglang Village, Jishou City, Xiangxi Tujia and Miao Autonomous Prefecture in central China's Hunan Province. The national brand they talked about was the star product in the village ®C Pinglang tofu.

Shi Qingxiang is called "Tofu beauty" by locals. /CGTN Shi Qingxiang is called "Tofu beauty" by locals. /CGTN

Shi is called "Tofu beauty" by locals in the scenic village. For generations, her family has been making tofu for a living. She grew up with the sound of stone mill and the smell of beans.

An ancient stone mill. /CGTN An ancient stone mill. /CGTN

Homegrown beans, spring water and ancient stone mills make the pristine delicacy from the mountains. Bad transport, however, restricted villagers from selling the product outside the remote area. They worked hard day and night only for a small income. "We had no money and lived form hand to mouth. We got up at about 2 a.m. every day to grind the beans, collect spring water from the mountain with two buckets and carry them back with a shoulder pole. The path was very rugged. We could only take back one or two buckets a day," said Shi.

Shi collects spring water from the mountain with two buckets. /CGTN Shi collects spring water from the mountain with two buckets. /CGTN

Life was tough. Yet Shi always intended to earn money on her own. Learning the techniques from her father, she has been exploring different ways to sell them.

Dried tofu sold at Changsha agricultural fair. /CGTN Dried tofu sold at Changsha agricultural fair. /CGTN

Hard work pays off. Quite by accident, an official from Changsha City got interested in Shi's tofu and suggested that she go to the agricultural fair. Shi and her family took their products to Changsha in 2012. Beyond their expectations, the products they prepared in a week were sold out in one morning. Since then, Shi sensed the high demand for their special tofu and decided to build the brand "Pinglang tofu."

Pinglang tofu. /CGTN Pinglang tofu. /CGTN

The village secretary told Shi: "Do your best for the industry. You can have all the support from the government." In 2014, a tofu cooperative was set up by 20 households in the village. Each of them borrowed a small loan of 50,000 yuan from the bank.

Shi Qingxiang is called "Tofu beauty" by locals. /CGTN Shi Qingxiang is called "Tofu beauty" by locals. /CGTN

Supported by the poverty alleviation policy, the tofu business in the village got better and better. Inspired by the idea of having a Spring Festival for the farmers, villagers held a magnificent tofu banquet. It had quite an impact. And Pinglang Tofu became popular.

The tofu banquet of Pinglang Village. /CGTN The tofu banquet of Pinglang Village. /CGTN

For three years, their tofu remained in short supply, although they made over a dozen boxes every day. Shi has been offering villagers an annual bonus. Many people have been lifted out of poverty. °∞The village used to be quiet. Now it bustles with vigor. We see hope,°± said Shi with a smile.

Residents of Pinglang Village. /CGTN Residents of Pinglang Village. /CGTN