Too much is at risk for SAGO to be distracted by politics
Editor's note: CGTN's First Voice provides instant commentary on breaking stories. The daily column clarifies emerging issues and better defines the news agenda, offering a Chinese perspective on the latest global events.

After a paralyzing summer of extreme politicization over how to proceed with the study of the origins of SARS-CoV-2, the virus that causes COVID-19, a new World Health Organization (WHO) advisory panel has been formed to help break the logjam.

The WHO Scientific Advisory Group for the Origins of Novel Pathogens, or SAGO, is designed to be a permanent body comprising 26 international experts. Announcing the formation of SAGO, WHO chief Doctor Tedros Ghebreyesus and two top WHO officials wrote in the journal Science that "it's clear that the scientific processes have been hurt by politicization, which is why the global scientific community must redouble efforts to drive the scientific process forward."

The previous team of experts studying the origins of the virus concluded that a leak of the coronavirus from a lab was "extremely unlikely" and not worth wasting further resources on. Similar conclusions have been reached again and again in the world's top journals, including Science, Nature, Cell and the Lancet. Nonetheless, due to unrelenting political pressure from the United States, the lab leak theory has been kept alive. The verdict was then turned dramatically, and the lab-leak theory was prioritized in the next phase of the plan.

It is important to note there has been no scientific evidence at all put forward to show that COVID-19 was triggered by a lab leak. In contrast, numerous research papers show how the pandemic could have jumped from animals to humans. However, the new panel is highly likely to run into political hurdles. The lab-leak theory is at heart a political, not a scientific theory. It began as a political fringe conspiracy; vote-grabbing politicians made it mainstream politics. And when scientists didn't support it, the U.S. instructed its spy agencies to keep this discredited hypothesis alive.