Touting democracy, EU parliament acts the other way round on Taiwan
Editor's note: CGTN's First Voice provides instant commentary on breaking stories. The daily column clarifies emerging issues and better defines the news agenda, offering a Chinese perspective on the latest global events.

Shouting its "defending democracy" and fighting against "foreign" interference, the EU Parliament is acting the other way round. On Wednesday, a European Parliament delegation paid an "official" visit to China's Taiwan. The seven-member group said in its statement that it looks forward to "fruitful discussions on the defense of democracy, freedom, rule of law, and respect for human rights" in its three-day visit.

Amid ratcheted-up tensions between the Chinese mainland and the Taiwan region, the move 每 as opposed to what is claimed in the EU's statement 每 is instead damaging democracy. The EU Parliament, as the so-called bastion of human rights, risks Taiwan people's rights to stability and peace for its political gains.

The Chinese central government has reiterated that reunification is a historical inevitability. The mainland has the economic and military capacity for this end 每 top U.S. military officer General Mark Milley also admitted this fact. "The Chinese are clearly and unambiguously building the capability to provide those options (use of force) to the national leadership if they choose at some point (to achieve reunification) in the future," Milley told the Aspen Security Forum.

The question is thus never about whether a reunification will become a reality, but the timing for it 每 at which point the breakthrough, when China is facing multiple missions, will be in the best interests of the nation. Any breach of the one-China principle could accelerate the process, pushing the mainland to make a move on the Taiwan authorities.

Europe is clear about it. But for EU Parliament, politics apparently carries much more weight than the stability in the region thousands of kilometers away from it. For decades, the EU has been relying on Washington for security. It has no intention to anger Washington, which has been playing the Taiwan card to contain China's rise. Dancing to the U.S.'s tune against China is a matter of political correctness for certain countries within the EU.