U.S. and China should resume trade talks immediately
A cargo ship pulling out at Qianwan Container Terminal in Qingdao, east China's Shandong Province, February 19, 2021. /Xinhua A cargo ship pulling out at Qianwan Container Terminal in Qingdao, east China's Shandong Province, February 19, 2021. /Xinhua

Editor's note: Jordan Kronen, a Schwarzman Scholars alumnus at Tsinghua University, serves as legislative assistant to Washington State Senator Liz Lovelett. Sumesh Shiwakoty, a policy analyst and commentator, serves as a board member and South Asia director for the U.S. Department of State-funded California-based non-profit "United by Love" and has worked in the past with the World Policy Institute in New York. The article reflects the authors' opinions and not necessarily the views of CGTN. When U.S. President Joe Biden entered the Oval Office, the trade war between the U.S. and China was at its height. While senior officials within the Biden administration have stated that former President Donald Trump's tariffs on China were not "very thoughtful," they have done nothing so far to change the structure of these tariffs and have not engaged with their Chinese counterparts to bring ongoing tariff regimes to an end.

When Trump embarked on his ill-conceived trade war with China, he aimed to deliver on two signature campaign promises: reduce the U.S. trade deficit and bring manufacturing jobs back home. The trade war, so far, has achieved neither of these goals. Recent evidence shows that the U.S. trade deficit with China has, in fact, continued to soar while U.S. consumers are footing the tariff bill. It has been estimated that U.S. consumers are paying $1,277 more on average annually due to the ongoing tariff regimes. In 2019, the U.S. trade deficit with China did initially decrease as a result of tariffs, but the U.S. trade deficit with its other trading partners such as the EU, Japan and Mexico increased, demonstrating that the tariffs diverted trade flows away from China but did not solve the structural problems with the U.S. trade deficit. Instead, Trump's tariffs on China created harm rather than prosperity. Tensions rose between U.S. companies and their Chinese contractors as well as significant increases in the prices of Chinese imported goods for U.S. markets. While conventional wisdom would interpret these economic indicators as proof that manufacturing plants are coming back to America, the facts do not support this forecast. Data shows that U.S. companies are instead switching from Chinese suppliers to those in other countries to avoid these tariffs. Importing less from China has also hurt the U.S.'s economic health. Evidence shows that Chinese products sell three to six times the factory price in U.S. markets, allowing U.S. traders and businesses to make more money from Chinese imports than Chinese manufacturers. A recent study by the Federal Reserve Bank of New York and Columbia University discovered that the ongoing trade war has cost U.S. companies at least $1.7 trillion. U.S. workers and farmers have also been severely hurt by the ongoing trade war. Oxford Economics estimates that there were around 245,000 jobs lost in America at the peak of the trade war. Model simulations by that same study also suggest that any further escalation between the world's two largest economies may cause 320,000 further job losses in the U.S. and could shave almost $1.6 trillion from the U.S.'s GDP.

The Port of Los Angeles, the U.S.'s busiest container port, in San Pedro, California, November 7, 2019. /Getty The Port of Los Angeles, the U.S.'s busiest container port, in San Pedro, California, November 7, 2019. /Getty