U.S. lawmakers' cheap stunts for Taiwan separatism are futile
Editor's note: CGTN's First Voice provides instant commentary on breaking stories. The daily column clarifies emerging issues and better defines the news agenda, offering a Chinese perspective on the latest global events.

American lawmakers tend to be professional virtue signalers more than they are legislators. They enjoy posturing to procure political support for themselves to advance their careers and profile by making statements and pledges of action which are touted upon style, not substance. And these stunts are deliberately aimed at invoking drama and hysteria with a deficit of realism.

This is what happened when a delegation of U.S. lawmakers landed in Taiwan on November 9 on a military plane. The act marks the latest in a number of growing publicity acts pioneered by Taiwan's Democratic Progressive Party (DPP) authority, encouraged by the United States, in the bid to try and win support for independence and salami slice the one-China policy. And each action is becoming increasingly provocative.

In continuing to press China's redline on Taiwan and to ultimately challenge its national sovereignty and territorial integrity, the United States is engaging in destabilizing, destructive and detrimental behavior of which could potentially pose catastrophic consequences. China will not tolerate it and sit idly by. The mainland is resolute in its political will and resolve that the reunification of China will be completed and these childish provocations will not be sufficient to change the course of history. Those who are endorsing separatism on the island will ultimately be punished and remembered as the traitors they are.

With legislators, we've been here before. Who can forget how Josh Hawley and Marco Rubio actively courted leading rioter Joshua Wong in Hong Kong? Or how Ted Cruz headed into the Chinese city himself in the peak of the riots also to score political points?

But the key takeaway is that none of these stunts ultimately changed the outcome in the end. And neither will it be in Taiwan. The U.S. and others are engaging in these petty stunts because it believes it can expand Taiwan's political space by seeing how close it can get to the "redline" without actually crossing it as if to call Chinese mainland's bluff in the underlying assumption that Beijing will never seriously resort to force to reunify the country. This is wrong, such thinking overstates the impact petty provocations can have in changing the status quo, while concurrently understanding the enormous toolbox in the mainland which is prepared to weaponize in order to end the independence pipe-dream. The DPP and their separatist backers, will fail.