U.S. needs to remove the beam out of its eye before discrediting China
Editor's note: CGTN's First Voice provides instant commentary on breaking stories. The daily column clarifies emerging issues and better defines the news agenda, offering a Chinese perspective on the latest global events. The United States, never afraid to "cast the first stone," has added China this year to its list of countries engaging in "systematic, ongoing and egregious violations of religious freedom." The main thrust of U.S. accusations of religious intolerance in China stems from allegations of a "genocide" in Xinjiang Uygur Autonomous Region against the Uygur population and what many Americans view as suppression in Xizang Autonomous Region. These allegations are often casually referred to as fact by some Western media outlets, even though there has been no evidence presented of mass graves, forced sterilizations or even a demographic drop in the number of Uygurs. In fact, much like the allegations of a COVID-19 lab leak, there has been no concrete evidence put forward at all. China has successfully cracked down on separatist terror groups seeking an independent Islamic state in Xinjiang. Those terrorists killed hundreds of innocent people, and were in part supported by the CIA as part of its efforts to destabilize China and stop its rise. It is part of a pattern of the U.S. supporting separatist movements in places like Xizang, Hong Kong Special Administrative Region and Taiwan region. Authorities have brought the annual number of deaths from separatist terror attacks down to zero. Fighting foreign interference and violent separatism is completely different from a crackdown on the practice of Islam, which was not restricted during the crackdown and remains unrestricted now. This crackdown targeted extremists, not Muslims who have lived peacefully in China for centuries. It was Muslims themselves who were the main victims of terror attacks.

The Moon Watching Tower of the Niujie Mosque, the largest and oldest mosque in Beijing. /CGTN The Moon Watching Tower of the Niujie Mosque, the largest and oldest mosque in Beijing. /CGTN

In fact, China is home to many religions such as Buddhism, Taoism, Islam, Catholicism and Christianity. Tens of thousands of temples, shrines, churches and mosques can be found throughout the country. Followers could worship freely and without constraint. Religious tolerance has been a key feature of China's governance for centuries, seen as an essential policy for keeping a vast territory full of people of different beliefs united. This multiculturalism can be vividly seen in places like the Lama Temple in Beijing, where ancient stone stele contains the same texts translated into Chinese, Manchu, Tibetan and Mongolian. Many universities in China integrate Islamic dietary traditions as part of their service to the Muslim students. Mosques exist in all major population centers. Before the COVID-19 pandemic, thousands of Chinese Muslims did the annual Haj pilgrimage to Saudi Arabia each year. In the United States, in contrast, the previous administration came to power on a platform of xenophobia and religious intolerance, smearing Muslims as enemies of the U.S. and promising to ban them from entering the country. In recent years, a Christian-centered white supremacy movement has swelled, and hate crimes against people of Asian ancestry have soared, matching the rise of anti-China rhetoric and stereotyping from the former president himself. The FBI and Department of Homeland Security have declared racially or ethnically motived violent extremists the primary source of lethal and significant violence in the country. These groups glorify defending "Christianity" and the "white race." The former president's rhetoric didn't help to stem these trends.

Members of the New York Immigration Coalition hold a news conference in Foley Square to talk about the U.S. Supreme Court decision to uphold U.S. President Donald Trump's Muslim ban, June 2018. /AFP Members of the New York Immigration Coalition hold a news conference in Foley Square to talk about the U.S. Supreme Court decision to uphold U.S. President Donald Trump's Muslim ban, June 2018. /AFP