U.S. citizens will need vaccine or negative test to enter America
U.S. citizens returning from abroad will still need to provide proof of having received a COVID-19 vaccine if they want to avoid more stringent testing requirements, White House officials said. /Getty Images

U.S. citizens returning from abroad will still need to provide proof of having received a COVID-19 vaccine if they want to avoid more stringent testing requirements, White House officials said. /Getty Images

U.S. citizens returning from abroad will still need to provide proof of having received a COVID-19 vaccine if they want to avoid more stringent testing requirements, White House officials said.

On Monday, President Joe Biden is set to sign a presidential proclamation implementing new vaccination and testing requirements for entry into the United States.

The new requirements, which will be in force as of 8 November, will require all non-citizen, non-immigrant travelers to the U.S. to be vaccinated against COVID-19 unless they are under 18 or a country that the Centers for Disease Control determines to have low vaccine availability.

But while the new travel protocols will allow unvaccinated U.S. citizens and green card holders to enter the country, they will have to abide by stricter testing rules.

Under the new rules, "fully vaccinated air passengers entering the United States internationally, regardless of citizenship, will continue to be required to show a pre-departure, negative COVID test taken within three days of travel prior to boarding," a senior White House official explained. "They will be required to show proof of vaccination to qualify for this three-day testing window."

Although American citizens and lawful permanent residents will not be required to provide proof of vaccination to enter the country, the official said they, as well as anyone else subject to a small number of exemptions from the vaccine requirement, will have to provide a negative test result within one day of boarding their flight to the U.S..

(With input from agencies)