U.S. companies express increased interest in this year's CIIE
Visitors experience piloting a simulated passenger plane at the Honeywell Exhibition Hall during the 4th China International Import Expo in Shanghai, China, November 6, 2021. /Getty Visitors experience piloting a simulated passenger plane at the Honeywell Exhibition Hall during the 4th China International Import Expo in Shanghai, China, November 6, 2021. /Getty

Editor's note: William Jones is a Washington Policy Analyst and a Non-resident Fellow of the Chongyang Institute for Financial Relations. The article reflects the author's opinions and not necessarily the views of CGTN. While the Biden Administration is cooking up new ways to restrict Western reliance on "supply chains" connected to China, most recently in the U.S.-EU trade agreement where the two committed to use only "clean" aluminum and steel (produced in plants not fueled by coal), the major U.S. companies are traveling to Shanghai for the China International Import Expo (CIIE) to exhibit their wares and to establish a firm footing in the Chinese market. In fact, this year there are 198 American companies exhibiting at the CIIE, more than in any of the three preceding CIIEs.

Some of these companies are "old-timers" at the CIIE, like Honeywell, which is also heavily involved in many Belt and Road Initiatives (BRI) projects, and some are total "newcomers" like U.S. e-commerce giant Amazon. Most of the major U.S. producers realize that the world is now irrevocably interconnected and as economist (and statesman) Lyndon LaRouche used to point out in his university lectures at Columbia University in the 1960s, every American when he or she gets up in the morning, is faced with the worldwide cup of coffee. By this he meant that if you examined the origins of that cup of coffee and all the items that went into its production and transportation to your breakfast table, you would have to go several times around the world. This interlocking network of production and transportation lies at the basis of even the most elementary items that a person uses each day. To make the foolish attempt to limit that network to a single country or to a number of ideologically "like-minded" partners would lead to a rapid decline of the living standards and the life of that nation's people. The English poet, John Donne, said that "no man is an island entire of itself; every man is a piece of the continent, a part of the main." The same could be said of countries, (indeed, even those which are in fact islands). We have seen the effect of the futile attempt to "disengage" from an important part of the worldwide network of production, in the draconian tariffs impose on Chinese products by former U.S. President Donald Trump.

Visitors put together lego bricks at the consumer goods exhibition area of the 4th China International Import Expo (CIIE) in Shanghai, China, November. 7, 2021. /Getty Visitors put together lego bricks at the consumer goods exhibition area of the 4th China International Import Expo (CIIE) in Shanghai, China, November. 7, 2021. /Getty