UK government announces new alcohol monitoring device for offenders
The SCRAM CAM bracelet uses the same sensors as an alcohol breath-testing device, except it is worn on the ankle and tests automatically. /SCRAM The SCRAM CAM bracelet uses the same sensors as an alcohol breath-testing device, except it is worn on the ankle and tests automatically. /SCRAM

Some former inmates leaving prison in Wales will now have a new condition attached to their release: an alcohol monitoring device. The new program is aimed at "serious and prolific offenders" put under Probation Service supervision known to reoffend after drinking and will be used in England next summer. An estimated 12,000 people will be required to wear the device over the next three years.

How does the device work?

The device, or a SCRAM bracelet as it's known, is a band placed around the offender's ankle, where it will have constant contact with the skin. Every 30 minutes, it will check their sweat to determine if they have been drinking. The device is also smart enough to tell the difference between alcohol-based skin products and alcohol sweat, if it is damaged or if the wearer places an object between it and their skin, say the manufacturers. The people wearing this device may be told to quit drinking for a set period up to a maximum of one year or have their drinking levels monitored. People who fail to meet these conditions could be handed more jail time.

Why is it being used?

The device is to curb violent crime in the UK and save the money its costs to address alcohol-fueled crime. According to the UK government, alcohol is involved in around 39 percent of violent crimes committed in the country. And alcohol-related crime costs the taxpayer $28 billion every year. The UK government's Ministry of Justice said people placed under similar schemes in the past remained sober for 97 percent of the time while wearing the bracelet.

The UK has also started to GPS tag people convicted of stealing. An estimated 10,000 people will be tagged in the next three years. /CFP The UK has also started to GPS tag people convicted of stealing. An estimated 10,000 people will be tagged in the next three years. /CFP

Has this been done before?