Underlying issues in Blinken's visit to sub-Saharan Africa
Editor's note: Stephen Ndegwa is a Nairobi-based communication expert, lecturer-scholar at the United States International University-Africa, author and international affairs columnist. The article reflects the author's opinions and not necessarily the views of CGTN.

United States Secretary of State Antony Blinken landed in Nairobi, Kenya's capital city, on Tuesday night on a three-nation visit that will see him also visit Nigeria and Senegal. According to a statement released by the State Department on November 11, Blinken will meet with the respective presidents for broad discussions on "the COVID-19 pandemic and building back to a more inclusive global economy, combating the climate crisis, revitalizing our democracies and advancing peace and security."

According to experts, the broadness of the agenda, without mentioning specific outcomes, is aimed at managing any high expectations that the host leaders and even the overall African leadership might have of Blinken's visit.

Others see it as symbolic, coming a couple of weeks before the eighth Forum on China-Africa Cooperation (FOCAC) on November 29-30 in Dakar, Senegal. The triennial Sino-Africa meeting acts as an important forum where African leaders seriously consider the development models that have led to the continent's economic stagnation since independence. The talks with the U.S. are attempting to steal this thunder. Apart from the U.S.' pontifications on democracy and human rights, Africa has real issues to grapple with.

Blinken's touchdown in the Kenyan capital on Tuesday night was preceded by twin explosions in Kampala, Uganda's capital, in the morning. The apparent return of terrorist activities in the region has brought back sad memories of a traumatic period when terrorist groups bombed people indiscriminately.

Observers also note that terrorism seems to be making a comeback after a long hiatus during the term of former U.S. President Donald Trump between 2017 and the beginning of 2021. This is really an interesting development and might give hints of geopolitical, covert operations between the Republicans and Democrats.

Curiously, Blinken's itinerary excludes Ethiopia, a currently veritable hotspot of civil unrest in the region, which is in turmoil with the ongoing turf fighting between Tigray rebels and the country's defense forces. It seems that U.S. President Joe Biden's administration has delegated the responsibility of coordinating regional peace initiatives to Kenya after the country officially became a non-permanent member of the United Nations Security Council in January 2021.