Verstappen wins in Mexico City to stretch F1 lead
Race winner Max Verstappen of Red Bull Racing celebrates in parc ferme during the F1 Mexican Grand Prix at Autodromo Hermanos Rodriguez in Mexico City, Mexico, November 7, 2021. /CFP Race winner Max Verstappen of Red Bull Racing celebrates in parc ferme during the F1 Mexican Grand Prix at Autodromo Hermanos Rodriguez in Mexico City, Mexico, November 7, 2021. /CFP

Red Bull's Max Verstappen celebrated a dominant win in the Mexico City Grand Prix on Sunday to surge 19 points clear of Lewis Hamilton in the F1 championship with four races remaining. Seven-time world champion Hamilton was second for Mercedes, holding off Red Bull's Sergio Perez who became the first Mexican to stand on his home podium at a jubilant Autodromo Hermanos Rodriguez. Red Bull closed the gap to champions Mercedes in the constructors' standings to one point.

Max Verstappen driving the (#33) Red Bull racing car leads Lewis Hamilton of Mercedes during the F1 Mexican Grand Prix at Autodromo Hermanos Rodriguez in Mexico City, Mexico, November 7, 2021. /CFP Max Verstappen driving the (#33) Red Bull racing car leads Lewis Hamilton of Mercedes during the F1 Mexican Grand Prix at Autodromo Hermanos Rodriguez in Mexico City, Mexico, November 7, 2021. /CFP

"It's still a long way to go but it's of course looking good, but also it can turn around very quickly," said Verstappen, 24, of his big step forward in the championship battle. Verstappen took the chequered flag 16.555 seconds clear of Hamilton to seal his ninth victory of the season, third in Mexico and 19th of his career. The Dutchman seized the lead into the first corner from third on the grid, going three abreast with the two Mercedes and timing his braking to perfection, in what turned out to be the decisive moment of the race. "I kept it on the track, came from third to first and that was basically what made my race because I could just focus on myself, and we had incredible pace in the car," he said.

Max Verstappen (R) and Lewis Hamilton spray champagne to celebrate on the podium after their race at F1 Mexican Grand Prix in Mexico City, Mexico, November 7, 2021. /CFP Max Verstappen (R) and Lewis Hamilton spray champagne to celebrate on the podium after their race at F1 Mexican Grand Prix in Mexico City, Mexico, November 7, 2021. /CFP

Verstappen then gave Hamilton no chance to hit back once the safety car, deployed after collisions further back, was out of the way. Hamilton, the most successful driver of all time with 100 career wins, said he gave it everything after being chased closely by Perez over the last 10 laps. "I feel like I maximized it with what I have," said the Briton. "We've got four races to go and we just have to keep pushing."

Sergio Perez is hoisted high on the shoulders of his mechanics as he waves the Mexican flag to salute the crowd after the race in Mexico City, Mexico, November 7, 2021. /CFP Sergio Perez is hoisted high on the shoulders of his mechanics as he waves the Mexican flag to salute the crowd after the race in Mexico City, Mexico, November 7, 2021. /CFP

"You have to congratulate Red Bull because the pace was just on another level," said Mercedes team boss Toto Wolff. "I don't think we could have won the race even if we had stayed ahead in the first corner." Valtteri Bottas, who had taken a surprise pole position on Saturday, was spun around and dropped to 18th place after an immediate pit stop. The Finn ended up 15th but pitted for fresh tires to snatch the fastest lap from Verstappen at the end, denying the Dutchman a precious bonus point without it coming to Mercedes since he was outside the top 10.

Source(s): Reuters