Warning China on Taiwan, the U.S. is the real problem
Editor's note: CGTN's First Voice provides instant commentary on breaking stories. The daily column clarifies emerging issues and better defines the news agenda, offering a Chinese perspective on the latest global events.

On the sidelines of the G20 summit, China's Foreign Minister Wang Yi met with U.S. Secretary of State Anthony Blinken. Taiwan was the primary issue of focus. After the meeting, Blinken reportedly "warned" the Chinese government "not to unilaterally change the status quo" on Taiwan.

During the meeting, Blinken intentionally ignored the fact that it is the U.S. that has been provoking China over the Taiwan question, offering support to the separatists of the Democratic Progressive Party (DPP).

America is the problem here.

The United States has a diplomatic commitment to adhere to the one-China principle as the foundation of its relationship with the country as a whole. The three China-U.S. joint communiques established that Taiwan is a part of China and the U.S. must not host troops on the island.

However, as part of its anti-China agenda, the U.S. has increasingly sought to abrogate its commitment to the one-China principle. It attempts to weaponize the island against the Chinese mainland via a process of salami slicing.

This has included giving increasing support to separatist forces on the island, removing restrictions on "diplomatic" contacts with them, seeking to expand their political space, and demanding they participate in international organizations. Apart from that, the U.S. encourages and supports other countries ¨C such as Lithuania ¨C in violating the one-China principle, stationing soldiers on the island, selling more arms to the DPP, making more "official" visits to the island, etc.

The list goes on.

In almost every area, the U.S. is rowing back its diplomatic commitments, trying to turn the one-China principle into an empty shell.

In moving the goalposts, who is really undermining Taiwan's status quo? Who is really undermining stability in the Taiwan Straits by deliberately undermining prospects for peaceful reunification?