What the U.S. election map reflects
Editor's note: Xin Ping is a commentator on international affairs who writes regularly for CGTN, Global Times and China Daily. The article reflects the author's opinions and not necessarily the views of CGTN.

The American public takes pride in the "one person, one vote" principle in the country's election process. Indeed, it feels good to have an impact on who leads the country. But the reality may only come as a disappointment. Voting itself may be a symbol of democracy; how one's vote is counted and how much it counts in politics is another matter.

Whenever flaws of the U.S. election system are mentioned, "gerrymandering" would be a subject for discussion. A combination of Gerry and salamander, the expression with "American characteristics" was invented back in the 19th century, when then Massachusetts governor Elbridge Gerry created a partisan district in the Boston area, whose shape resembled a mythological salamander. As the approach soon caught on in other U.S. states, the term evolved into a synonym to manipulation for partisan gain and corruption of the democratic process.

The mouthful word may be too unique to be understood by outsiders, but Americans know this too well, and have been fed up with it. According to a poll conducted by the Associated Press in March this year, 67 percent said partisan gerrymandering of legislative districts by states is a major problem. Another survey by YouGov in August showed only 16 percent of voters trusted that their own state can divide districts in a fair manner, comparing to the 44 percent who did not share such faith.

The "neck" and "tail" of the salamander extend as if to reach as much political interest as possible, although not necessarily resulting in a lizard-like contour. Once in power, the incumbent party would employ their legal power to maximize the effect of supporters' votes and to minimize the effect of opponents' votes. There are even jargons assigned for the practices, for example, cracking and packing. The former involves spreading voters of the opposing party among many districts to deny them a sufficiently large voting bloc in any electoral district. The latter means concentrating as many voters of one party as possible, in order to reduce their influence in other districts. In either way, the entire point is to make sure the decision-maker's own party keeps political advantage over an area, completely ignoring what voters would like to say.