Why 'common prosperity' strategy could sustain stable economic growth
Ma Huihuang (L), leader of the poverty relief team of Shibadong Village, together with villager Shi Linjiao, promotes local products via live streaming at Shibadong Village of Xiangxi Tujia and Miao Autonomous Prefecture, central China's Hunan Province, May 15, 2020. /Xinhua

Ma Huihuang (L), leader of the poverty relief team of Shibadong Village, together with villager Shi Linjiao, promotes local products via live streaming at Shibadong Village of Xiangxi Tujia and Miao Autonomous Prefecture, central China's Hunan Province, May 15, 2020. /Xinhua

Editor's Note: Ken Moak taught economic theory, public policy and globalization at the university level for 33 years. He co-authored a book "China's Economic Rise and Its Global Impact" in 2015. The article reflects the author's opinions, and not necessarily the views of CGTN.

The Chinese government recently introduced the "common prosperity" strategy to improve income equality and social justice. Applying policies such as giving the poor and working classes access to education and property taxes might just do the job.

There is a direct relationship between the level of education and income as attested by the U.S. law G.I. Bill, officially the Servicemen's Readjustment Act of 1944, which gave veterans the opportunity of a post-secondary education upon returning from World War II. With the higher level of education or acquiring a job skill, veterans were able to access higher-paying jobs, boosting the size of the middle class. That led to decades of economic growth because more Americans were able to consume and invest.

The scheme could also work in China. Only around 400 million of the country's 1.4 billion people are classified as the middle class, according to the white paper "China's Epic Journey from Poverty to Prosperity."

That leaves over one billion people, or over 70 percent of the population, either poor or rich, suggesting some have too much money while the many do not have enough. This led to under-consumption, explaining why China's ratio of consumer spending in GDP is less than 40 percent, significantly lower than those of other major economies, with the U.S. at 68.7 percent and the UK 60.8 percent in 2021.

Empirical evidence has proven that for an economy to sustain stable growth, its middle class, loosely defined as the population able and willing to buy products that are not merely necessities of life, should be the majority.

For example, the West and Japan are economically stable because of their huge middle-class size. On the other hand, Latin American countries register unstable and slow growth rates because the vast majority of the population does not have enough money to sustain domestic economic growth.

From this perspective, there is an argument to be made that offering education and training to the poor segments of society should increase the size of China's middle class.