Why India's nuclear ICBM test is counterproductive for stability
Editor's note: Hamzah Rifaat Hussain is a former visiting fellow at the Stimson Center in Washington, former assistant researcher at the Islamabad Policy Research Institute (IPRI), and TV anchor of Indus News in Pakistan.

On the threat of nuclear weapons during conflict, the rule is that skirmishes, tensions and conventional conflicts between countries need to be resolved through confidence-building measures and dialogue to prevent it from descending into the nuclear domain, when conversely, adding nuclear dimensions to tensions would only exacerbate trust deficits and threaten nuclear nonproliferation.

Despite this, better sense has not prevailed in New Delhi either on the results of Corps Commander-level talks or the decision to establish credible deterrence, given its decision to test a nuclear capable intercontinental missile (ICBM) called "Agni-5" amid tensions with China with a range of 5,000 kilometers on October 27.

The missile, which descended into the Bay of Bengal, is touted to have a high degree of accuracy, yet it belittles the significance of border talks with China, which was previously considered pivotal by Defense Minister Rajnath Singh.

Furthermore, India tackling China by strengthening its weapons systems will not resolve its numerous internal quagmires, which include a pandemic stricken economy and challenges to inclusivity. Instead, it brews misunderstandings, increases the risk of miscalculations, and provides an impression that the New Delhi leadership wishes to pursue a path of expansionism and deterrence rather than de-escalation or diffusion.

There are several reasons as to why this line of action is counterproductive. Firstly, China has not once tapped into the nuclear domain while dealing with the border crisis with India, despite confronting other threats of nuclear proliferation in its immediate backyard such as the AUKUS alliance securing transfers of nuclear submarines to Australia.

Secondly, the Indian Defense Ministry's claim that the test is in line with a stated policy of credible minimum deterrence with a "No First Use" policy can potentially translate into full spectrum deterrence by equating adversarial advances with threat perceptions to be dealt by force.

If one is to examine the October 10th Corps Commander-level talks between the two sides, which are cited as a justification for Indian nuclear adventurism closely, there was an agreement to maintain communications and stability on the ground while taking into account the overall scope of bilateral relations while making decisions.

India's decision to test also detracts from the remarks of the Chinese Military's Western Theater Command that Beijing was making tremendous efforts to ease the tense border situation in the strategically significant Galwan Valley.

Since the Galwan clashes of 2020, a three-tiered approach was previously adopted by both China and India. At the diplomatic level, dialogue tracks between India's External Affairs Minister S. Jaishankar and China's Foreign Minister Wang Yi have taken place alongside talks between National Security Advisor Ajit Doval and senior diplomat Yang Jiechi.