World Laureates and Gen Z
There is nothing more stimulating than an exchange of ideas in an environment with the right mix of youth and experience. It is not news that Gen-Zers have arrived on the global scene and are beginning to leave their mark on the world. Similarly, while entering their twilights, the older generations still have a lot to offer following years of accumulated wisdom and experience. What would a conversation between these groups ¨C Gen Z and the older generations ¨C look like? What manner of insights and inspiration would it incubate? These were some of the questions that prompted CGTN and the World Laureate Organization to put together an event that brought representatives of these groups together in Shanghai.

"Dialogues between World Laureates and Gen-Z" sought to stimulate and encourage an exchange of ideas through frank and unfettered conversations. It brought together world-renowned scientists in various fields, promising up-and-coming young scientists, and Gen Z influencers to explore the role of humanism in this age of science and spin. That many of the renowned scientists had won the highest prizes in their various fields, including the Wolf Prize, the Fields Medal, and the Turing Award, only made the conversations more interesting. Topics discussed included the role of curiosity in scientific work, interdisciplinary research and journalism's role in the education of the public.

Learning from nature and interdisciplinary research

It is often said that art imitates life. In recent times, however, it appears that science has been imitating life too. At least the futuristic research of Hou Xu, a professor at Xiamen University's College of Chemistry and Chemical Engineering, suggests as much. He works on "bio-inspired materials" and believes that we can learn from the brain to develop computers. His current research is on "liquid gating," the use of pressure to control liquids. An idea inspired by watching the sci-fi movie "Stargate." A case of art imitating life and science imitating art.

Increasingly, scientific research tends to straddle several complementary disciplines, and sometimes, even unrelated domains. This interdisciplinary approach is likely to become characteristic of future scientific work. For instance, Prof. Hu referenced earlier research that is simultaneously anchored in nano-science, material science and biology. In a similar vein, Prof. Richard Zare, a recipient of the Wolf Prize in Chemistry, pointed out that even though mass spectrometry was developed in physics, it has numerous applications in physical chemistry. And he predicts, "with a degree of confidence," that in the future it would be deployed more frequently in medicine.

Similarly, he notes that one of the reasons he enjoys teaching is because teaching can, and often does, stimulate research. He uses teaching as a driver of research because it forces him to dig deeper into the topics and subjects in preparing his lectures and classes.

Curiosity, discovery and learning

Finding out how the world works should be the motivation for conducting research, not the desire to win prizes, notes Robert Kirshner, Clowes Professor of Science at Harvard University and the recipient of the 2015 Wolf Prize in Physics. For him, the desire to discover answers to questions on how the universe functions has been the principal determinant of his scholarly career, in other words, the desire to satisfy his curiosity. Espousing similar views, John Hopcroft, recipient of the 1986 A. M. Turing Award, said "curiosity is a fundamental driver of science," noting that the desire for answers is a powerful force. And, according to Prof. Zare, "a sense of wonder and curiosity" is more important for science than talent. These highly decorated, renowned and redoubtable scientists are unanimous on the need for curiosity in scientific research. To drive home the point, Prof. Zare advises, "Be childlike; science is a humanistic activity."

The idea that curiosity is the primus inter pares of attributes necessary for a successful career isn't limited to science, nor to the older generations for that matter. Generation Z, for instance, shares it. Li Jingjing, a journalist with CGTN, added that "in journalism, you need to be curious about people and the environment" if one is to succeed. The unanimity of thought between the groups on the role and significance of curiosity was remarkable. A fitting illustration of this idea was provided by Efim Zelmanov, recipient of the 1994 Fields Medal, who remarked, "It's impossible to teach mathematics, but possible to learn mathematics; it should be an active process." Once again, emphasizing the importance of curiosity and the desire to discover.

Popular science and science journalism

We live in perilous times, as far as accurate information is concerned. Yet, Prof. Zelmanov reflects that "this is the most mathematical and digital the world has ever been." Therefore, it is ironic that there appears to be an assault on rationalism and common sense by unscrupulous elements. The result of which is that the public gets easily swayed by pseudo-science and fake information. Consequently, Prof. Zelmanov reckons that "popular science is quite important to educate the general public and combat pseudo-science." Prof. Hopcroft also believes that journalists would become more critical in the future for the preservation of and dissemination of facts.

It was heartening to observe that one of the panelists, Dr. Pineapple, has, since 2013, been contributing his quota through popular science to inspire and educate the public. He writes on cancer, and with the power of his pen, has been demystifying the disease. With more writers like him, the public would be better educated about the disease and any other subject for that matter.

Long may it last

Perhaps fittingly, "Kid the bard," a popular Chinese internet influencer, fired a barrage of questions at Prof. Kirshner. The questions were sourced from his numerous followers, and to his credit, "Bob" was a good sport. The interactions between them offered a glimpse of how ideas and communication can flow between Gen-Z and older generations for the benefit of all. There ought to be more of these interactions and dialogues.

While the universe might want to hold on to its secrets just a little longer, we, humankind, with renewed curiosity, would never stop prying.