World's largest book fair returns to Frankfurt
A book on German chancellor Angela Merkel is on display at a booth at the Frankfurt Book Fair 2021. /Daniel Roland/AFP

A book on German chancellor Angela Merkel is on display at a booth at the Frankfurt Book Fair 2021. /Daniel Roland/AFP

After adopting a mostly digital format in 2020 to comply with coronavirus restrictions, the world-famous Frankfurt Book Fair has reopened its doors to attendees for its 73rd edition.

"We have a special permit to hold the [festival]: According to the current health and safety plan, 25,000 participants will be able to visit the book fair each day," said organizer Juergen Boos on Wednesday.

However, the pandemic's restrictions are still being felt ¨C 25,000 is down significantly from previous years' turnout. More than 250,000 people attended the convention in 2019.

READ MORE

Triceratops skeleton sells for $7.7m

The mystery noise space scientists can't figure out

World carbon emissions 'dangerously' high

The star-studded list of authors that normally reads to fans has also been cut down and one of the most prominent speakers, Margaret Atwood, will appear via video link.

The Buchmesse, as it's known in German, is not just a showcase for German books. Literature from around the world in a variety of different languages is on display from both small and large publishers.

Chinese authors have nearly 1,500 works available for viewing, many of which are illustrated children's books.

Books have helped people around the world find an escape during the worst months of the pandemic. When strict lockdowns were introduced, reading was a popular outlet that provided comfort and a distraction.

Sales of printed books in 2020 had their best year in more than a decade as a result. Industry members say that is welcomed news after years of watching people pick up e-readers, or opting for visual media like Netflix.

Canada, a guest of honor

This year's main spotlight is on Canada, which has put its national conversation on diversity front and center.

Books on race and social issues have been some of the bestselling in recent years. Publishers' displays have prominently featured literature from indigenous groups to better represent Canada's ethnic diversity.

"We're talking about one big country and a lot of things happening in that country. Canada wants to show our indigenous history which is very important with reconciliation which is happening in our country,"said Amanda Will, marketing director for Boulder Books.

"We're not just about moose and polar bears, we have a real history and lots of stories to share with the world."

The virtual version of the book fair adopted in 2020 largely failed to elicit the same special feelings from book lovers.

Attendees returning in 2021 say there's something special browsing shelves and feeling the pages with your fingers.