Xi Jinping attends National Science and Technology Award Conference
Other leaders, including Li Keqiang, Wang Huning and Han Zheng, were also present.

Aircraft designer Gu Songfen and nuclear expert Wang Dazhong received the award medals and certificates during the annual National Science and Technology Award Conference at the Great Hall of the People in Beijing.

Chinese President Xi Jinping on Wednesday presented China's top science award to two Chinese scientists for their outstanding contributions to scientific and technological innovation.

Besides the top science award, the conference also honored 264 projects, with 46 winning the State Natural Science Award, 61 the State Technological Invention Award, and 157 the State Scientific and Technological Progress Award. Eight foreign scientists and one international organization received the China International Science and Technology Cooperation Award.

Sci-tech push

Premier Li Keqiang extended congratulations on behalf of the Central Committee of the Communist Party of China (CPC) as well as China's State Council. He also thanked foreign experts for their support of the country's progress in science and technology.

Noting that the People's Republic of China has made brilliant achievements in scientific and technological fields since its founding, Li said the CPC has attached great importance to the cause of science and technology and shown respect and care for the professionals.

Li highlighted the science and technology professionals' outstanding contribution in the fight against COVID-19.

The Chinese premier called for a quickened pace in core technologies for key fields and the strengthening of basic research. The country should support researchers in concentrating on their work and creating more original achievements by tolerating failures, he said.

He also emphasized on the role of enterprises in innovation and urged further efforts to integrate production with scientific research.

"We should cut the red tape that restricts innovation and creativity, deepen institutional reform for scientific and technological development and relieve the burden on researchers," Li added.

Vice Premier Han Zheng, also a member of the Standing Committee of the Political Bureau of the CPC Central Committee, presided over the ceremony, with about 3,000 people in attendance.

Before the ceremony, Xi and other leaders met representatives of the award winners.

(Cover: Chinese President Xi Jinping, also general secretary of the Communist Party of China (CPC) Central Committee and chairman of the Central Military Commission, presents China's top science award to aircraft designer Gu Songfen (R) and nuclear expert Wang Dazhong (L) at the annual ceremony to honor distinguished scientists, engineers and research achievements at the Great Hall of the People in Beijing, China, November 3, 2021. /Xinhua)